AND WE'RE GOING TO CALL THE
MEETING TO ORDER.
WELCOME TO THE APRIL APRIL 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MEETING
OF THE INNER CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
, THE PLEDGE
IN INDIVISIBLE
WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR
ALL.
WELL, THE CLERK PLEASE TAKE THE
ROLE OF COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
HERE MEMBER HARRISON ABSENTING
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG HERE COMES
ROBERTSON HERE MAYOR PRO TEM
DENHA HERE COUNCIL MEMBER
HEGAZY EDWYN ABSENT MAYOR
TAYLOR ABSENT COUNCIL MEMBER
IGHER YES CUSTOMER ECKMANN HERE
COME FROM HER BRIGS HERE FROM
CORNELL HERE MAYOR CAN WE EVER
THANK YOU CAN I PLEASE GET A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
THIS EVENING MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL IN
FAVOR AND HE POSTS THE MOTION
AH THE AGENDA AS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATION
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
THIS EVENING?
WE KNOW THAT MR. TONY IS
JOINING US ON LINE
.
WE ARE NO COMMUNICATIONS THIS
EVENING.
THANK THIS EVENING WE HAVE TWO
INTRODUCTIONS.
THE FIRST IS A MONTHLY UPDATE
FROM THE CHAIR OF OUR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION CHAIR
CARTER, YOU HAVE THE FLOOR.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE WITH YOU.
I DON'T HAVE A LENGTHY REPORT
FOR YOU THIS EVENING.
A COUPLE OF THINGS WE HAD
PLANNED TO HAVE OUR MEET THE
NEW CHIEF EVENT IN APRIL AND
OUR APRIL MEETING BUT WE NEED
MORE TIME.
WE WANT TO HAVE A VERY NICE
EVENT.
WE WANT TO GET AS MANY OF THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS HERE AS AS
POSSIBLE.
AND SO AS OF NOW DEFINITELY WE
HAVE CANCELED FOR THE APRIL
TWENTY THIRD DATE AND IT IS
TENTATIVELY UNTIL WE SECURE A
VENUE ARE GOING TO BE FOR OUR
MAIN MEETING AND I KNOW ALL YOU
HAD PLANNED TO COME TO THE
APRIL MEETING SO PLEASE IF YOU
WOULD PUT ON YOUR AGENDAS NOW
FOR MAY 28TH FOR THE DAY WE'RE
INVITING THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY
EVERYONE HERE AS WELL TO COME
OUT AND MEET CHIEF ANDERSON
FACE TO FACE.
WE ARE IN THE PROCESS I
MENTIONED TO YOU LAST MONTH
ABOUT PRESENTING A NEW
RESOLUTION FOR THE INFORMATION
ON TRAFFIC STOP DATA TO BE
REPORTED OUT TO ECHO PARK.
WE ARE LOOKING AT FINALIZING
THAT RESOLUTION AT OUR APRIL
MEETING AND WE WILL THEN
FORWARD IT ON TO THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT FOR COMMENT AND THEN
HOPEFULLY IT WILL BE HERE IN
FRONT OF YOU AND WE ARE
CERTAINLY ENCOURAGING YOU TO
SERIOUSLY CONSIDER IT AND PASS
IT.
FINALLY WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF MEETINGS SCHEDULED FOR THIS
WEEK.
OUR TRAINING COMMITTEE IS
MEETING WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TRAINING STAFF ON
TOMORROW AND WE ARE BEGINNING
TO LOOK AT THE TRAINING THAT
OUR OFFICERS GET INITIALLY AND
PERIODICALLY.
AND SO THAT IS STARTING AND
THEN WE HAVE SCHEDULED ALSO A
MEETING WITH THE CHIEF AND THE
COMMAND OFFICERS THIS WEEK AS
WELL SO THAT WE CAN
LOOK AT
EXPECTATIONS AND POLICIES AND
PRACTICES.
SO THAT'S WHERE WE ARE.
IF THERE ARE NO QUESTIONS,
THAT'S ALL I HAVE FOR YOU THIS
EVENING.
THANK YOU.
CHAIR CARTER, OUR SECOND
INTRODUCTION THIS EVENING IS A
PROCLAMATION CELEBRATING
NATIONAL FAIR HOUSING MONTH.
WITH US TO HONOR THE OCCASION
IS AMANDA CARLISLE, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF WASHTENAW HOUSING
ALLIANCE AND KRISTIN CURRAN
FULLER, ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
OF FAIR HOUSING CENTER FOR
SOUTHEAST AND MID-MICHIGAN.
THOSE REPRESENTATIVE PLEASE
JOIN ME AT THE PODIUM
.
THANK YOU.
WE ALSO HAVE JANE LITTLE FROM
MICHIGAN ABILITY PARTNER HAS
COME UNDER FIRST AND FOREMOST I
WANT TO THANK BOTH OF YOU ALL
THREE OF YOU NOW FOR JOINING US
HERE THIS EVENING TO ACCEPT
THIS PROCLAMATION.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN FOR
WORKING WITH THE MAYOR TO
INITIATE IT AND FOR WORKING
WITH HIS OFFICE TO MAKE IT
HAPPEN.
I KNOW SHE WAS HOPING TO BE
HERE TONIGHT TO PRESENT THIS
WITH ME.
BUT AS SHE IS TENDING TO A
MEDICAL ISSUE, SHE ASKED ME TO
PASS ALONG HER BEST REGARDS AS
WELL.
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY AND
ACCESSIBILITY ARE QUITE
OBVIOUSLY A TOP PRIORITY THIS
COUNCIL AND IS LIKELY ONE
OF THE TOP REASONS THAT MOST
OF US ARE HERE AT THIS TABLE AT
ALL.
AND YET DESPITE LAWS LIKE THE
FAIR HOUSING ACT AND MANY OTHER
LOCAL PROTECTIONS,
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
PERSISTS AND NEEDS TO BE
CONTINUALLY AND FORCEFULLY
ADDRESSED.
NATIONAL FAIR HOUSING MONTH
PROVIDES US WITH AN OPPORTUNITY
TO CELEBRATE THE PASSAGE OF THE
NINETEEN SIXTY EIGHT FAIR
HOUSING ACT BUT ALSO TO REFLECT
UPON THE SEGREGATION AND
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING BOTH
PAST AND PRESENT.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, IT PROVIDES
US POLICYMAKERS WITH A CLEAR
OPPORTUNITY TO RECOMMIT
OURSELVES AND OUR LOCAL
GOVERNMENT TO CONFRONTING
HOUSING DISCRIMINATION AND
ADVANCING EQUITABLE ACCESS TO
HOUSING WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO WITH THAT WHEREAS APRIL 11TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IS THE FIFTY
SIXTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
PASSAGE OF THE FAIR HOUSING ACT
AND WHEREAS THE FAIR HOUSING
ACT PROHIBITS DISCRIMINATION IN
HOUSING IN RELATION TO RACE,
COLOR, NATIONAL ORIGIN,
RELIGION, SEX, GENDER IDENTITY,
SEXUAL ORIENTATION AND SEXUAL
HARASSMENT, FAMILIAL STATUS AND
DISABILITY REGARDING RENTING OR
BUYING A GETTING A MORTGAGE
SEEKING HOUSING ASSISTANCE OR
PARTICIPATING IN HOUSING
FOCUSED ACTIVITIES AND WHEREAS
MILLIONS OF ILLEGAL ACTS
OF HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
HAPPEN EACH YEAR BUT MUST
REMAIN UNREPORTED BECAUSE THEY
ARE DIFFICULT TO RECOGNIZE AND
WHEREAS HOUSING PROVIDERS MAY
IMPOSE POLICIES TO EXCLUDE
RENTERS AND OTHER HOUSING
PARTICIPANTS WITH RECORDS
OF CRIMINAL CONVICTION UNDER
THE FAIR HOUSING ACT UNLESS THE
AMOUNT OF CRIMINAL HISTORY
BASED RESTRICTIONS OFTEN
RELATES TO ONE'S RACE, NATIONAL
ORIGIN OR OTHER PROTECTED
CHARACTERISTIC OVER ANOTHER OR
IS HOW OR IF THE HOUSING
PROVIDERS USE CRIMINAL HISTORY
AS PRETEXT FOR UNEQUAL
TREATMENT OF INDIVIDUALS
BECAUSE OF RACE, NATIONAL
ORIGIN OR OTHER PROTECTED
CHARACTERISTICS AND WHEREAS THE
NATIONAL FAIR HOUSING ALLIANCE
IS TWENTY TWENTY THREE REPORT
SHOWS THAT THE HIGHEST NUMBER
OF HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
COMPLAINTS EVER FILED AND
WHEREAS IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO
THE LARGEST PORTION OF HOUSING
DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINTS FILED
FIFTY THREE POINT TWO SIX
PERCENT WERE DUE TO DISABILITY
AND WHEREAS IN TWENTY NINETEEN
EIGHTEEN PERCENT OF PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES LIVED BELOW THE
FEDERAL POVERTY LEVEL AND
ANOTHER THIRTY FOUR PERCENT
LIVED ABOVE THE FEDERAL LIVING
ABOVE THE FEDERAL POVERTY
POVERTY LEVEL, WE'RE STRUGGLING
TO AFFORD BASIC NEEDS AND
WHEREAS COMMUNITIES IN MICHIGAN
SHOULD TAKE STOCK OF AND SURVEY
THE AVAILABILITY, BUILDING AND
FUNDING OF ACCESSIBLE,
AFFORDABLE AND INCLUSIVE
HOUSING AND PUBLICIZE THE
INFORMATION AND WHEREAS
MICHIGAN MUNICIPALITIES SHOULD
INCREASE THE NUMBER
OF ACCESSIBLE HOUSING UNITS,
INCREASE THE AMOUNT
OF UNIVERSALLY DESIGNATED
HOUSING AND ADOPTABLE UNITS AND
HOMES AND INCREASE THE AMOUNT
OF ACCESSIBLE SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSING IN INTEGRATED
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ALLOW
DIVERSE NEIGHBORHOODS TO THRIVE
TOGETHER AND PROVIDE OPTIONS
FOR FAMILIES OF ALL SIZES NOW.
THEREFORE I ON BEHALF OF MAYOR
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR DO HEREBY PROCLAIM
THE MONTH OF APRIL TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AS NATIONAL FAIR
HOUSING MONTH AND AND IF ANY
OF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEE THANK
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR FOR THIS
PROCLAMATION THE HOUSING
ALLIANCE IS WORKING WITH A
COALITION OF NONPROFIT AND
GOVERNMENT PARTNERS TO END
HOMELESSNESS IN OUR COUNTY AND
HOUSING DISCRIMINATION IS ONE
OF THE ISSUES THAT WE SEE
FACING A LOT OF PEOPLE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS AND
HOUSING INSECURITY AND JUST
WANTED TO RECOGNIZE ARE TWO
OF OUR MEMBER AGENCIES AND
PARTNERS IN THIS WORK,
ESPECIALLY THE FAIR HOUSING
CENTER AND MICHIGAN MOBILITY
PARTNERS THAT'S WORKING WITH
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES TO GET
THEM HOUSED AND STAY HOUSED.
THANK YOU
.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENTS.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT ONE MUST HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND WE ONLY HAVE ONE AND
WE CAN ONLY HAVE ONE PERSON
SPEAKING AT A TIME FOR THOSE
SPEAKING.
I ASSUME THE CITY CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN YOU HAVE 30
SECONDS REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED.
SPEAKERS ARE NOT AUTHORIZED TO
DELEGATE THEIR TIME TO AN
ALTERNATE SPEAKER COUNCILOR
RULES ALLOW FOR FORTY FIVE
MINUTES OF PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE MEETING WE WILL ALLOW
FOR AT LEAST 15 SPEAKERS IN THE
INITIAL FORTY FIVE MINUTE TIME
PERIOD IF AT THE CONCLUSION
OF FORTY FIVE MINUTES SPEAKERS
REMAIN ON THE PUBLIC COMMENT
LIST WILL REOPEN PUBLIC COMMENT
FOR THOSE SPEAKERS AT THE END
OF THE MEETING.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TONIGHT IS
HANBURGER
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MAYOR PRO
DENHA PLEASURE TO BE WITH YOU
ALL TONIGHT.
I'M KEN GARBER.
SECOND WORD I'LL GET RIGHT TO
IT ON TWO AND ELIMINATING THE
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC
HEARING.
I APPRECIATE THAT YOU'VE
MITIGATED THIS SOMEWHAT BUT IT
STILL CUTS THE AGENDA ITEM
NOTICE PERIOD FROM FIFTEEN DAYS
TO EIGHTEEN HOURS.
FOR THIS AND OTHER REASONS I'M
STILL FOR KEEPING THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND STILL SEEMS WEIRD
TO ME THAT WE'RE EVEN TALKING
ABOUT THIS ON DC THREE
SUSTAINABILITY.
YOU'VE HEARD ME SPEAK AD
NAUSEAM ABOUT KEEPING FOSSIL
FUELS OUT OF NEW DEVELOPMENTS
BUT THIS PROPOSAL FOR FAST
TRACKING FEE SAVING, TAX
EVADING TIPPING AND WAIVING
PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW IS
ALL WRONG FIRST BECAUSE IT
NORMALIZES GAS, IT HELPS
DEVELOPERS YOU CAN BUILD WITH
GAS IF YOU WANT.
THERE WON'T BE A PROBLEM.
BUT LOOK, WE HAVE THESE COOKIES
FOR YOU IF YOU DON'T SOME
OF THESE COOKIES ARE TAXPAYER
SUBSIDIES.
WE HAVE BUILDERS HERE THAT HAVE
GONE ELECTRIC ON THEIR OWN AS
THEY ALL SHOULD.
BUT IF THIS GOES FORWARD MANY
WILL TRY TO FEED FROM THE
PUBLIC TROUGH.
YES, YOU HAVE THE BUT FOR TEST
BUT THE ONLY CATEGORIES
OF ELECTRIFIED BUILDINGS THAT
WOULDN'T BE BUILT BUT FOR CITY
HELP ARE WHERE THE BUILDER IS
IGNORANT OF MODERN COST
EFFECTIVE GAS FOR YOUR
CONSTRUCTION OR DOES NOT
ACKNOWLEDGE ANY RESPONSIBLE FOR
CLIMATE CHANGE.
WE DO NOT WANT TAXPAYERS TO
SUBSIDIZE SUCH DEVELOPERS OR TO
SMOOTH THE PROCESS FOR THEM IF
WE GRANT THE STAFF REVIEW
COOKIE WE ALSO CUT OUT PLANNING
COMMISSION REVIEW AND ITS
BENEFITS INCLUDING PUBLIC
COMMENT TO REWARD DEVELOPERS
FOR WHAT THEY SHOULD BE DOING
ANYWAY.
WE HAVE BETTER OPTIONS THAN
NORMALIZING GAS SUBSIDIZING
DEVELOPER PROFITS AND CUTTING
OUT PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS
THAT DON'T VIOLATE STATE LAW.
LOOK WHAT OTHER CITIES HAVE
DONE.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT CHARGES A
CARBON POLLUTION IMPACT FEE FOR
GAS BURNING NEW DEVELOPMENTS
AND MAJOR INNOVATIONS.
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS
PER METRIC TON CO2 PER YEAR.
SUCH AN ORDINANCE FOR ANN ARBOR
IS NOW AT ENERGY COMMISSION.
LAST YEAR THE CAMBRIDGE,
MASSACHUSETTS CITY COUNCIL
AMENDED ITS ENERGY BENCHMARKING
ORDINANCE TO REQUIRE ALL LARGE
BUILDINGS TO REDUCE EMISSIONS
TO NET ZERO BY 2035 OR PAY A
COMPLIANCE FEE THAT KEEPS NEW
CONSTRUCTION ALL ELECTRIC HERE
WE CAN'T EVEN GET BUILDING
OWNERS TO PROPERLY REPORT
ENERGY USE UNDER OUR OWN 2021
BENCHMARKING LAW AND OUR FIRST
PUBLIC REPORT WAS DUE IN 2022.
BUT SO FAR NOTHING HAS APPEARED
IF PEOPLE IN BURLINGTON OR
CAMBRIDGE WERE TO SEE THREE I
THINK THEY WOULD BE ASTOUNDED.
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION ISN'T
THE H0 STANDARD ANYWAY.
IT'S NET ZERO AND ELECTRIFIED
BUILDING CAN STILL BE A HIGH
EMITTER AND ADD TO GLOBAL
EMISSIONS FOR GENERATIONS TO
COME.
SO PLEASE I SUGGEST YOU
POSTPONE DC TWO AND DC THREE TO
ALLOW FOR PUBLIC DISCUSSION
OF THESE AND OTHER HUGE CHANGES
THAT I HAVEN'T HAD TIME TO GET
INTO.
THANK FOR HEARING MY COMMENTS
.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE ELLEN ORLIN
.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS ELINOR LYNN.
I LIVE ON FOREST COURT ONLY A
BLOCK AND A HALF AWAY FROM THE
CHURCH STREET PARCELS THAT ARE
IN QUESTION TONIGHT.
THEIR PROPOSED BUILDING IS TOO
BIG, NOT ECOLOGICALLY
SUSTAINABLE AND IT IS AGAINST
OUR FORCES ZONING REGULATIONS
THAT APPLY TO THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
.
THE PROFESSIONAL STAFF OF THE
CITY'S PLANNING DEPARTMENT HAS
RECOMMENDED THAT THE PROPOSAL
BE TURNED DOWN FOR THESE
REASONS AND THE MAYOR'S
APPOINTED PLANNING COMMISSION
HAS VOTED AGAINST APPROVAL
BECAUSE IT WOULD PROVIDE QUOTE
NO PUBLIC GOOD OVER 200 PEOPLE
RESIDENTS, WORKERS
, BOARD
MEMBERS AND CHILDREN'S HOUSE
PARENTS HAVE SIGNED A LETTER
URGING YOU TO VOTE NO ON THIS
PUDI FOR THE SAME REASONS MY
CONNECTION TO THIS PART OF MY
NEIGHBORHOOD IS MORE PERSONAL.
I HAVE FREQUENTLY CANVASED THAT
BLOCK IN SUPPORT OF BALLOT
ISSUES AND POLITICAL
CANDIDATES.
I MET MANY OF THE FORMER
RESIDENTS AS AN ELECTION
INSPECTOR AT OUR LOCAL POLLING
PLACE.
I WAS THEREFORE ALARMED LAST
YEAR AND COMING HOME ONE
AFTERNOON I SAW BULLDOZERS
DEMOLISHING HOUSES ON THAT
BLOCK.
CAN YOU IMAGINE ALL THE HOUSES
ON A BLOCK TWO STREETS AWAY
FROM YOU BEING DEMOLISHED
WITHOUT NOTICE?
I CALLED THE CITY TO ASK WHAT
WAS GOING ON.
I WAS TOLD THAT ANY PROPERTY
OWNER HAS THE RIGHT TO DEMOLISH
THEIR PROPERTY IF THEY PLAN TO
REPLACE IT WITH SOMETHING THAT
FOLLOWS THE SAME ZONING
REGULATIONS IN THIS CASE, THE
OWNER SAID THEY PLAN TO BUILD
THREE LOW RISE TOWNHOUSE IS
WITH A TOTAL OF 18 UNITS AND A
MAXIMUM OF ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHT RESIDENTS.
THE CURRENT BAIT AND SWITCH
PROPOSAL BEFORE YOU, HOWEVER,
IS SIX TIMES TALLER THAN THE
TOWNHOUSE PROPOSAL WITH FIFTEEN
TIMES MORE UNITS AND TEN TIMES
MORE BEDROOMS.
IF APPROVED IT WILL BE AN
EYESORE A DRAIN ON PUBLIC
RESOURCES AND A BLIGHT TO MY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
YOU AS OUR ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVES NEED TO CLOSE
THIS BAIT AND SWITCH SWITCH
LOOPHOLE.
OTHERWISE ANY DEVELOPER CAN
DEMOLISH EXISTING PROPERTY
CLAIMING TO REPLACE WITH
SOMETHING OF SIMILAR
PROPORTIONS ONLY TO TURN AROUND
AND GAIN EASY APPROVAL
OF SOMETHING MUCH LARGER AND
LESS SUSTAINABLE IN ITS PLACE.
I TRUST YOU TO FOLLOW THE
WISHES OF YOUR CONSTITUENTS AND
THE COMMON GOOD OF THE CITY.
VOTE NO ON THE 711 CHURCH
STREET PROPOSAL AND CLOSE THIS
BAIT AND SWITCH LOOPHOLE.
OTHERWISE MANY OF US WILL
EXPRESS OUR PREFERENCES FOR
WHAT WE WANT WHEN WE VOTE IN
THE UPCOMING CITY ELECTION
.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE BRANDON DEMCHUK
RIGHT HERE.
YES, RIGHT I AM.
SO THIS IS BRANDON CALLING IN
FROM ONE PARTICULAR CAST IN
VERY ON THE BLACKBOARD I'M
CALLING TODAY FOR THE COUNCIL
TO APPROVE SEE WHAT THE
REZONING AND FLIGHT PLAN FOR A
SEVEN ELEVEN CHURCH IF APPROVED
THIS PROJECT WILL PROVIDE OVER
A THOUSAND THAT MUCH NEEDED
STUDENT HOUSING BLOCK ON CAMPUS
AND CONTRIBUTE SEVEN MILLION
DOLLARS TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND WHICH IS
APPROXIMATELY THE SAME AS WHAT
WE HAD COLLECTED THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILITA THIS YEAR THIS
BUILDING MORE THAN ONE THOUSAND
STUDENTS TO LIVE ON THIS SMALL
SITE INSTEAD OF OCCUPYING OVER
ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY RUNDOWN
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSES IN BURNS
SIMILAR TO THE ONES THAT WERE
RECENTLY DEMOLISHED IN ORDER TO
MAKE ROOM FOR THIS MUCH BETTER
USE OF LAND, THE RECOMMENDATION
FOR DENIAL SEEMS TO BE BASED ON
THE OPINION OF THE SCALE OF THE
DEVELOPMENT IS TOO LARGE FOR
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I DISAGREE.
THIS BUILDING FITS IN PERFECTLY
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE DORM
ADJACENT TO FRATERNITIES,
ANOTHER STUDENT HIGH RISE TO
THE TOP OF A PARKING STRUCTURE
IS DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM OTHER
PERSONS OWNED.
THIS ONE IS NOT IN THE MIDDLE
OF A QUIET SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD IS
EVEN CLOSER TO CAMPUS THAN A
NUMBER OF RECENTLY APPROVED
STUDENT HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
THIS IS OWNED BY NOW BUT FOR
THE DELAY TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AS A RESULT, KOBAN IS
ALMOST ENTIRELY STUDENTS AND
THIS IS A PERFECT LOCATION FOR
MORE STUDENT HOUSING WHICH
HOUSLEY WILL NOT BE OWNED BY.
ALL THOSE ARE ADJACENT TO A
BUILDING AND SHE WILL NOT
PERFORM UNTIL DEEP INTO THE
HARDEST PART OF THE LATE
AFTERNOON SPEECH.
I REFUSE TO SHED A TEAR IF A
SLIVER OF A SHADOW IS HALF THE
PUBLIC PARKING STRUCTURE THE
BEER PONG TABLE ACROSS THE
STREET VISIBLE ON GOOGLE STREET
VIEW AND THE PEOPLE WAITING IN
LINE FOR RIK'S IN A
COVERED ALLEY THAT I WILL DO IS
PROBABLY WORTH A SMALL PROJECT
TO BE BUILT.
BUT THE SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
FOR THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
AND PUTTING US FURTHER BEHIND
ADDRESSING OUR HOUSING SHORTAGE
MAYBE THE UNIVERSITY WILL BUY
THE LOCKS AND TAKE IT OFF THE
TAX ROLLS WE NEED TO SAY YES TO
SOLVING ONE OF THE BIGGEST
PROBLEMS FACING OUR CITY.
THIS IS GOOD AND THE BENEFIT IN
ITSELF AND IT PROMOTES
EFFICIENTLY AND SO PLEASE
APPROVE IS MUCH NEEDED HOUSING
TONIGHT SECURITAS HE'S HAVING
FUN AND PERHAPS ONE THOUSAND
PEOPLE CLOSER TO SOLVING OUR
HOUSING CRISIS.
IT WOULD BE FOOLISH TO VOTE ON
THIS PROJECT AND DESPITE WHAT
THAT IS WE SUPPORT C1.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE LYNDELL GIRKINS
YES WE CAN.
THANK YOU
.
WHEN WE COME BACK WE ARE
CHANGING THE FOR THE PUDI FOR
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH GROUP THAT
WILL BE DIRECTLY IN RESPONSE
OPPOSED TO THE SIZE OF THE
BUTTERFLY AND THE IT WILL HAVE
ON OUR WEB OF SUFFERING SOME
OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
BUILDING AND SO FORTH AND THE
CONSTRUCTION AFFECTED THE
QUALITY OF LIFE RATHER THAN WE
EXPECTED THE CONSTRUCTION
CHURCH STREET STRAIGHT THIS WAY
.
BUT THE OVERLAP AND TIMING
OF THE PROJECT MAY NOT BE TWICE
AS IMPACTFUL BUT HAVE EVEN
GREATER CONSEQUENCES MAY BE
OPPOSED TO HAVING THESE ADVERSE
EFFECTS CONTINUALLY FOR THE
NEXT THREE TO FOUR YEARS IN
PARTICULAR THE REGULATIONS
COVERING CONSTRUCTION OVER THE
FIVE A.M. IN THE MORNING ON
SUNDAY WHETHER THIS REPORT WILL
BE APPLIED TO THAT EARTHQUAKE
AND FIGURE IN THE RIGHT AND
VIBRATIONS WILL HAVE ON OUR
HUNDRED PARTICULARLY THE
FOUNDATION THE CITY HAD TURNED
OFF THE WATER AND WHICH HAS
RESULTED IN BAD PIPES WHICH WE
HAD TO PAY TO ON THE NUCLEAR
MASON UNIVERSITY SAID IF THEY
HAD WAITED THEY WOULD HAVE LET
THE AND I IT WOULD NOT HAVE
BEEN INCONVENIENCED BY A LACK
OF WATER THEY A THAT IT TOOK A
WHILE TO BEGIN THE FOUNDATION
OF WATER THAT I NEED.
THE TRAFFIC IN THE AREA HAS
BEEN AFFECTED I AND TRIED TO
COMPLETE MY BACK TO OUR PARKING
LOT ONCE AGAIN WE ASK THAT YOU
CONSIDER THE BACK AND THE STATE
AND THE PUDI THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE ERIC AVIJIT
.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M CALLING FROM THE ALLEN
NEIGHBORHOOD IN WARD THREE.
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK WITH YOU.
I FIRST WANT TO EXPRESS MY
SUPPORT FOR DC ONE, DC TO DC
THREE AND DC FOR OUR CITY IS
THAT WILL NOT SOLVE THEMSELVES
.
THEY REQUIRE THOUGHTFUL
POLICIES AND ACTIONS TO HELP
ADDRESS THEM.
THESE RESOLUTIONS COLLECTIVELY
ACKNOWLEDGE THESE FACTS AND
PROVIDE TOOLS AND MECHANISMS TO
ALLOW OUR CITY TO PARTICIPATE
AND THOUGHTFULLY ADDRESSING
THESE ISSUES.
I'M ALSO CALLING IN TO VOICE MY
FULL SUPPORT FOR THE PDS ZONING
OF SEVEN ELEVEN CHURCH STREET.
WE ARE IN THE MIDST OF A
HOUSING CRISIS AND IT'S VITAL
THAT ALL AREAS OF CITY
GOVERNMENT ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AND
WORK IN CONCERT TO HELP ADDRESS
THAT UNIVERSITY CONTINUES TO
INCREASE ELEMENT AND THOSE
STUDENTS NEED TO LIVE SOMEWHERE
OR HOW COMMISSIONER EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR JENNIFER HALL AND CITY
GOT MORE AND MORE UNIVERSITY
STUDENTS ARE LIVING IN
YPSILANTI AND COMMUTING INTO
CAMPUS.
IT'S IMPERATIVE THAT WE PROVIDE
MORE HOUSING ADJACENT TO THE
UNIVERSITY.
STUDENTS CAN WALK TO CAMPUS
RATHER THAN COMMUTE
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH STREET IS
JUST ONE BLOCK FROM CENTRAL
CAMPUS AND OTHER STUDENT
HOUSING BUILDINGS OF COMPARABLE
SIZE AND IT ADDS OVER ONE
THOUSAND BEDS TO THE CAMPUS
AREA OF STUDENT HOUSING.
IN ADDITION, IT WOULD ADD MORE
THAN SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS TO
OUR CITIES AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUNDS AND BRING MORE THAN FIVE
MILLION DOLLARS ANNUALLY IN TAX
REVENUE.
AND BECAUSE THESE PROPERTIES
BETWEEN EXISTING UNIVERSITY
PROPERTIES IS RIGHT FOR
PURCHASE BY THE UNIVERSITY IN
WHICH CASE IT WOULD BE REMOVED
FROM OUR TAX ROLLS, WE NEED
MULTIPLE DEVELOPMENTS OF THIS
TYPE AND WE NEED THEM AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE.
I WOULD APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT
ON THIS REZONING.
THANK YOU.
NEXT
WE HAVE NIKKI ANDRS.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
I AM NIKKI ANDREWS.
I AM WITH A BRIGHTER WAY AND
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING FOR
THAT FUNDING WHICH IS REALLY
INCREDIBLE.
IT BENEFITS THE COMMUNITY BY
PROVIDING HOUSING SECURITY AND
SELF-SUFFICIENCY AND IT CREATES
SYSTEMATIC CHANGE BECAUSE A LOT
OF ISSUES WITH PEOPLE THAT ARE
IN REENTRY ARE GENERATIONAL AND
IT ALSO INCREASES PUBLIC SAFETY
RESIDUAL INCOME AND CREATES
INCENTIVES FOR PROSOCIAL
BEHAVIOR.
AND AS AN EMPLOYEE WITH THE
RIGHT AWAY I KNOW FOR A FACT
THAT I'VE SEEN CITIZENS COME IN
THEIR KOTZER THING THEY'RE
HOMELESS BUT WHEN WE ASSIST
THEM WITH SOME OF THIS FUNDING
FROM HOUSING, HOW WE ASSIST
THEM TO GET HOUSING, THEY
THRIVE.
ONCE YOU HAVE A ROOF OVER YOUR
HEAD YOU CAN LOOK FOR A JOB.
YOU HAVE YOUR OWN ADDRESS.
I'VE SEEN THEM THRIVE AND BE
PRODUCTIVE AND EVEN HAVE A FEW
THAT THEY'RE ENROLLING IN
SCHOOL SO THE FUNDING FOR
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING FOR
PEOPLE THAT ARE ON THE CHOICE
OF VOUCHERS AND ARE IN REENTRY
FORMERLY MACERATED OR JUST
IMPACTED THIS FUNDING I'VE SEEN
FIRSTHAND FROM WORKING AT A
RIGHT AWAY WHICH IS AN AMAZING
ORGANIZATION I'VE SEEN HOW IT
HAS HELPED THEM AND WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT IT, YOU KNOW NO
PLACE TO REALLY LAY YOUR HEAD
AND YOUR COUCH SURFING AND YOU
HAVE NOWHERE TO GO.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO GET ON
YOUR FEET TO BE PRODUCTIVE
SOCIETY.
SO THE FUNDING WITH RISING HOPE
TO HELP THESE CITIZENS IS
EXTREMELY IMPORTANT AND I
REALLY HOPE WE CAN KEEP IT THAT
WAY.
AND THANK YOU ALL FOR
EVERYTHING THAT YOU DO.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE LISA JAVINS
.
HI, MY NAME IS LISA JAVINS AND
I WORKED ON THE PETITION
AGAINST THE 7-ELEVEN CHURCH
STREET WHICH NOW HAS OVER TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SIGNATURES ON
IT.
I LIVE AT THIRTEEN TWELVE
CAMBRIDGE ROAD IN NORTH BERN'S
PARK JUST A FEW BLOCKS FROM THE
PROJECT.
I WANT TO GIVE YOU THREE
REASONS WHY I WORKED ON THIS
PETITION.
FIRST I WANTED MY NEIGHBORS TO
KNOW ABOUT THE UNDERHANDED PUDI
PROCESS BY WHICH OUR TOWN IS
TURNING INTO CONCRETE CANYONS
MADE OF UNAFFORDABLE LUXURY
STUDENT HIGH RISES WITH EMPTY
STOREFRONT BELOW.
THIS IS CONFUSING AND ALARMING
OUR NEIGHBORS.
I WANT TO POINT OUT TO THEM
THAT IT IS YOU ARE SIT THERE
ELECTED CITY COUNCIL THAT HAS
INDISCRIMINANTLY UP, ZONED AND
UPSCALED OUR CITY WITH NO
REGARD FOR PROPER URBAN
PLANNING OR AFFORDABILITY.
MOST AND ARBORISTS THINK THE
UNIVERSITY SHOULD HOUSE ITS OWN
STUDENTS.
WHAT A CONCEPT IT HAS THE LAND
AND THE MONEY TO DO SO LUXURY
APARTMENTS WITH TWO THOUSAND TO
THREE THOUSAND A MONTH RENT ARE
TAKING ANN ARBOR IN THE WRONG
DIRECTION.
OTHER COLLEGE TOWNS ARE PUSHING
BACK ON THIS TREND BUT ANN
ARBOR IS WELCOMING AND PAVING
THE WAY.
THE SECOND REASON I WORKED ON
THIS PETITION IS BECAUSE OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD IS AT RISK UNDER
THIS HAPHAZARD DEVELOPMENT
SYSTEM DUE TO ITS PROXIMITY TO
CAMPUS BY APPROVING LUXURY
STUDENT HIGH RISE PED'S YOU
DRIVE UP PROPERTY VALUES AND
RENTS LEAVING OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
UNPRETTY DEAD BY ITS OWN ZONING
WHICH NOW MEANS NOTHING.
I LOOK AT MY FRONT PORCH ON THE
S FOREST STREET A DEVELOPER
LIKE THIS COULD EASILY BUY UP
MULTIPLE RENTAL HOMES RIGHT
THERE, TEAR THEM DOWN AND
PROPOSE A 17 STOREY BUILDING
FOR ONE THOUSAND PEOPLE IN
NORTH BIRD'S PARK.
YOU WOULD PROBABLY APPROVE IT
TO THE FACT THAT THIS EVEN
COULD HAPPEN IS A TOTAL
BETRAYAL OF OUR COMMUNITY.
THE THIRD REASON I WORKED ON
THIS PETITION IS THAT I WANT
NEIGHBORS TO RECAPTURE THEIR
VOICES.
IT HAS BEEN CLEAR FOR A LONG
TIME THAT CITY COUNCIL IS NOT
LISTENING TO THE COMMUNITY NOT
PAYING ATTENTION TO
NEIGHBORHOODS.
LET ME REMIND YOU THAT THE TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY PEOPLE WHO
SIGNED THIS PETITION ARE THE
VOTERS WE ARE YOUR
CONSTITUENTS, NOT THE
DEVELOPERS.
WE ARE YOUR KIDS, TEACHERS,
YOUR DOCTORS, YOUR NURSES, YOUR
REALTORS, YOUR ARTISTS, YOUR
DAYCARE WORKERS, YOUR
PROFESSORS.
WE SUPPORT THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
IN THE ARTS.
WE VOLUNTEER FOR EVERYTHING.
WE WORK THE POLLS ON ELECTION
DAY.
WE PAY VERY HIGH PROPERTY TAXES
AND WE ARE TIRED OF BEING
IGNORED.
I SAW ON THIS AGENDA THAT THE
CITY INTENDS TO ENCOURAGE
MARKET RATE HOUSING FOR
NONSTUDENTS BRAVO SEVEN-ELEVEN
CHURCH STREET IS A GREAT PLACE
TO START.
TELL THE DEVELOPER TO REVERT TO
THE ORIGINAL PLAN FOR TOWN
HOMES THAT COULD HOUSE FAMILIES
AND WORKERS SHOW US THAT ANN
ARBOR CAN LIVE UP TO ITS STATED
VALUES OF SUSTAINABILITY EQUITY
INCLUSION RIGHT NOW BY VOTING
NO ON THIS UNNECESSARY AND
HARMFUL PUDI THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE MICHELLE HUSE
AND
SEVEN CHURCH AND EVENING WE
HAVE A RECOMMENDATIONS AGAINST
THAT FROM STAFF AND FROM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
YOU ALSO HAVE ON THE AGENDA
THESE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RESOLUTIONS THAT WOULD MAKE IT
BE THAT CITY THAT THAT HOUSING
IS THE CITY'S NUMBER ONE
PRIORITY AND YOU KNOW, IF STAFF
IS GOING TO RECOMMEND AGAINST
THIS BECAUSE THERE'S TOO MUCH
HOUSING, IT'S PROBABLY BECAUSE
OF IT BECAUSE THEY HADN'T READ
THAT RECOMMENDATION, IT'S
PROBABLY BECAUSE THEY HAVEN'T
BEEN DIRECTED TOWARDS THESE
HOUSING BEING OUR NUMBER ONE
PRIORITY YET.
BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE IT
WOULD BE PRETTY SILLY TO DENY A
HOUSE DENY A HOUSING PROJECT
FOR HAVING TOO MUCH HOUSING AND
THEN SET HOUSING TO BE OUR
NUMBER ONE PRIORITY.
INSTEAD WE SHOULD CELEBRATE THE
FACT THAT A LOT OF HOUSING AND
WE SHOULD NOT LET THIS GREAT
PROJECT BE RUINED BY A RED TAPE
.
I ALSO WANTED TO GO ON HERE
TALK ABOUT HOW BY THE WAY AND
YOU SHOULD DEFINITELY PASS
THOSE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RESOLUTIONS.
BUT I'M ALSO HERE TO TALK ABOUT
THE RFP FOR AN ARMED RESPONSE.
I SAW TODAY AN AMENDMENT WAS
ISSUED THAT TOOK UP IT TOOK OFF
THE REQUIREMENT THAT AN ARMED
RESPONSE CALLED NINE ONE ONE IF
THEY WITNESS A CRIME AND THAT
IS BECAUSE YOU NEED TO BE
ASSURED THAT WHEN YOU'RE
CALLING THIS THE POLICE AREN'T
GOING TO COME AND KILL YOU
BECAUSE OTHERWISE YOU'RE GOING
TO HAVE PEOPLE YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE MINORITIES WITH THE SAME
FEAR TO CALL THE UNARMED
RESPONSE AS THEY ARE TO CALLED
ARMED RESPONSE.
IT'S GOING TO END UP WITH THEM
OR THEIR FRIEND'S DEATH.
BUT THERE'S ALSO A BUNCH
OF THINGS ON THERE THAT STILL
SHOULD BE CHANGED LIKE THE CITY
IS STILL REQUIRING THAT THE
ARMED RESPONSE PEOPLE BE ABLE
TO SET UP A 24/7 RESPONSE
CRISIS RESPONSE EVEN THOUGH THE
CITY ALREADY KNOWS FROM THE
LAST ROUND OF RFP THAT NO ONE
CAN DO THIS.
AND SO I DON'T KNOW WHY THE
CITY WOULD WANT TO SET ITSELF
UP FOR FAILURE AGAIN, IT SEEMS
LIKE IT'S A WASTE OF STAFF TIME
TO GO THROUGH REPEATED ROUND
AFTER ROUND OF REISSUING THE
RFP WHEN WE COULD JUST CHANGE
THE THINGS THAT MADE IT SO THAT
PEOPLE I COULDN'T I COULDN'T DO
THIS THE THE OTHER THINGS ARE
I'M QUITE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
INSISTENCE ON THE RFP THAT EVEN
MINOR CRIMES ARE THINGS THAT
THANK YOU LANCE CAN'T CAN'T DO
SO PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS OK THINK
ABOUT THAT STUFF.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE ELLEN RAMSBURG.
GOOD EVENING.
ELLEN RAMSBURG OUT OF CAMBRIDGE
WROTE IN ANN ARBOR I WANT TO
SPEAK TO YOU ABOUT LUXURY
STUDENT HIGH RISES THAT ARE
BECOMING A HOT SECTOR FOR THE
NATIONAL REAL ESTATE MARKET IN
TOWNS LIKE ANN ARBOR WHERE
THERE ARE MAJOR UNIVERSITIES,
THE HIGH RENTS IN THESE
BUILDINGS HAVE MADE THEM
ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENTS.
THEY RETURN A RELIABLE STREAM
OF PROFITS FOR LARGE ASSET
MANAGEMENT FIRMS AND BUILDINGS
ARE GETTING TALLER AND BIGGER
IN ORDER TO PROVIDE THE RATE
OF RETURN THAT INVESTORS
EXPECT.
INVESTORS HAVE RECOGNIZED THAT
STUDENTS ARE A CAPTIVE MARKET
AND THAT THE COST OF RENT IS
FACTORED INTO THE ELIGIBILITY
FOR FEDERALLY GUARANTEED
STUDENT LOANS.
THE STUDENT RENTAL HOUSING HAS
BECOME A LARGE PART OF THE
CRUSHING COSTS FACING STUDENTS
WHO WILL FACE YEARS TO PAY OFF
THESE ACCUMULATED OUT THE FAT.
THIS FACT SHOULD ADD CONTEXT TO
THE DECISIONS THAT THE CITY HAS
MADE ABOUT OPENING THE OR TO
MULTIBILLION DOLLAR FIRMS THAT
EXTRACT ESCALATING RENTS FROM
STUDENTS TO YIELD EXTRAORDINARY
PROFITS FOR THEIR INVESTORS.
BOTH THE HUB ON EAST HURON AND
WILLOW TREE ON PLYMOUTH ROAD
ARE OPERATED BY AMERICAN
STUDENT COMPANIES WHICH IS
OWNED BY BLACKSTONE, ONE OF THE
WORLD'S LARGEST ASSET
MANAGEMENT COMPANIES.
THE NEW 15 STORY LUXURY STUDENT
ON HIGH RISE AT SOUTH STATE AND
PACKARD AND THE 16 STOREY TOWER
ON E WILLIAM IS BEING DEVELOPED
BY CORE SPACES.
BUT THE FUNDING AND OWNERSHIP
OF THESE BUILDINGS WILL INCLUDE
BLUE OWL CAPITAL, ANOTHER
MASSIVE NEW YORK BASED ASSET
MANAGEMENT COMPANY.
THE COST THAT THESE OUT
OF SCALE AND DEVELOPMENTS
IMPOSE ON RESIDENTS AND THE
COMMUNITY
DOES NOT MATTER TO
ASSET MANAGERS AS LONG AS
PROFITS ACCRUE.
THEY DO NOT CARE ABOUT THE
IMPACT OF A 17 STOREY BUILDING
ON THE TOWNSLEY CHILDREN'S
HOUSE OR THAT THE BUILDING IS
TEN TIMES THE CURRENT ZONING
AND THAT IT DOES NOT QUALIFY
FOR A PUDI OR MEET OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS.
THEY DO NOT CARE THAT THIS
PROFIT DRIVEN BUSINESS MODEL IS
INCREASING THE DEBT BURDEN ON
STUDENT RENTERS.
THESE DEVELOPMENTS STRESS BOTH
PHYSICAL AND SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE CITY'S
WILLINGNESS TO WEAKEN AND ALLOW
EXCEPTIONS TO LAND USE RULES
ONLY ACCOMMODATES AND
UNDERWRITES THE PROFITABILITY
OF THESE PROFIT DRIVEN VENTURES
THAT ARE RESHAPING ANN ARBOR IF
COUNCIL IS WEEDING IS SORRY IS
IF COUNCIL IS WILLING TO CEDE
CHURCH STREET TO ELVIE
COLLECTIVE I WANT TO KNOW WHY
YOU ARE SO EAGER TO SELL BOTH
THE CITY AND THE STUDENTS TO
INVESTORS WHO HAVE NO OTHER
INTERESTS THEN EXTRACTING OUT A
SCALE RETURN ON INVESTMENTS
FROM THESE OUTSIDE AND OUT
OF PLACE BUILDINGS.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE MARK GERSTEN
.
HELLO I AM MARK GERSTEIN.
I LIVE AT 13 21 FOREST COURT
AND I'M HERE TO URGE YOU TO
LISTEN TO AND RESPECT THE
JUDGMENTS OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION PLANNING DEPARTMENT
AND THE MANY CITIZENS OF ANN
ARBOR WHO SIGNED PETITIONS
SUBMITTED TO YOU.
ALL OF THEM RECOMMENDED DENYER
OF THE APPLICATION FOR A FEW
DAYS FOR THE SITE AT
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH ST. THE
SURPRISING AND SURPRISINGLY
LOPSIDED NO VOTE OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND ITS
MULTITUDE OF REASONS CONCERNING
THE PROJECT'S SIZE.
ITS CHARACTER IS LARGE
CARBON FOOTPRINT.
IT'S OPPORTUNISTIC AND
MISGUIDED EXPLOITATION OF PUDI
PROCESS AND THAT IT PROVIDED NO
PUBLIC BENEFIT SHOULD BE
LISTENED TO.
LIKEWISE YOU SHOULD HEAR THE
HEED OF CAREFUL, THOUGHTFUL AND
EXTENSIVE ANALYSIS OF ALEXIS DE
LEO AND THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
STAFF RECOMMENDING DENIAL.
YOU HAVE A PROFESSIONAL
PLANNING STAFF WITH EXPERTIZE
AND EXPERIENCE.
YOU SHOULD LISTEN TO THEM AND
YOU SHOULD HEAR THE OPPOSITION
OF THE TOWNSLEY CHILDREN'S
HOUSEPARENTS AND STAFF WORRIED
ABOUT THE DANGERS POSED BY THE
PROJECT DURING CONSTRUCTION AND
ITS EVERLASTING IMPACT ON THE
LIGHT AND HAIR OF THE
CHILDREN'S PLAY YARDS ABUTTING
THE SITE AND LISTEN TO TO THE
MANY OF OUR CITIZENS WHO
EXPRESS THEIR OPPOSITION TO THE
7-ELEVEN CHURCH STREET PUDI IN
THE PETITION THEY SIGNED AND
THAT WAS SUBMITTED TO ALL
OF YOU.
THE PROPOSAL IS IN TOTAL
VIOLATION OF THE ZONING
CREATED BY THE CITY IN THE
RECENT PAST ESTABLISHING ONE IN
TWO ZONES WITH STEP DOWNS TO
PRESERVE THE INTEGRITY OF THE
SURROUNDING OUR FOUR SEASONS ON
CHURCH STREET DAEWON ZONING
STOPS AT WILLARD.
THIS PROPOSAL IS AN ATTEMPT TO
USE THE PROCESS TO TOTALLY
CIRCUMVENT AND BUST OPEN THE
CURRENT ZONING.
THIS IS NOT HOW CITY PLANNING
SHOULD BE DONE NOR SHOULD THE
CITY REMAKE ITS PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED PLANNING DEPARTMENT
PLANNING DOCUMENTS THROUGH SUCH
A SINGLE SITE SPOT ZONING AND
ZONING CERTAINLY SHOULDN'T BE
DONE BY HOW MUCH A DEVELOPER
CAN BE COMPELLED OR ENCOURAGED
TO KICK INTO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND OR INTO A PROJECT
FOR DOWNTOWN PUBLIC RESTROOMS.
I'M REFERRING THE LATTER TO THE
ORIGINAL PROPOSAL THE
DEVELOPERS TO CONTRIBUTE MONEY
TO THE DOWNTOWN PUBLIC
RESTROOMS AND THIS WAS
ACCORDING TO BRAD MOORE THE
SUGGESTION OF OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
THERE IS NO DISCERNIBLE PUBLIC
BENEFIT IN THE IN THIS PROPOSAL
ANY HOUSING CRISIS IN ANN ARBOR
WITH WILL NOT IN ANY WAY BE
ADDRESSED BY THIS PROPOSAL
WHICH WAS SOLELY BE MARKETED
FOR HIGH RENT STUDENT HOUSING.
I STRONGLY URGE YOU TO REJECT
THIS PUDI PROPOSAL FOR
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH STREET.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE ADAM JUST
DISCOMFIT HELLO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS ADAM MISCAVIGE CALLING
FROM THE FOURTH WARD.
I'D LIKE TO START OUT BY
BRIEFLY TOUCHING ON DC ONE TWO
,THREE AND FOUR I READ DEPUTY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR NEWS REPORT A
NEW APPROACH TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND FOUND MYSELF
NEWLY HOPEFUL FOR THE FUTURE
OF OUR CITY.
THE REFORMS SUGGESTED BY THE
REPORT AND THE PROPOSALS IN
FRONT OF YOU TONIGHT WILL GO A
LONG WAY TOWARD ADDRESSING MANY
OF THE ISSUES THAT KEEP TURNING
UP IN OUR CITY THE HOUSING
CRISIS, THE CLIMATE CRISIS,
POSSIBLE BUDGET SHORTFALLS, THE
NEED FOR PLACEMAKING AND MORE.
I HOPE TO SEE YOU PASS THESE
TONIGHT AND I HOPE TO SEE MORE
OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS FROM A
REPORT COME FORWARD IN THE
FUTURE FOR MANY OF THE SAME
REASONS I SUPPORT THOSE
REFORMS.
I ALSO SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT
AT SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH AND
DISAGREE WITH STAFF AND
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
RECOMMENDATION OF DENIAL.
THERE'S A LOT MORE THAN TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY PEOPLE LIVING
IN ANN ARBOR.
WE HAVE AN ELECTED DEMOCRATIC
GOVERNMENT NOT RULED BY
PETITION AS A TAXPAYER AND AS A
VOTER AND AS A BORN AND RAISED
IN STARBRIGHT I URGE YOU TO
LISTEN TO THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY
NOT A HANDFUL OF PEOPLE LIVING
IN MULTIMILLION OUR LUXURY
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSES WHO SIGNED
A PETITION.
THIS SITE IS SURROUNDED BY
OTHER BUILDINGS OF COMPARABLE
HEIGHT AND DENSITY IN AN AREA
DOMINATED BY DORMITORIES AND
OTHER DENSE STUDENT HOUSING,
STUDENT HANGOUTS AND ACADEMIC
BUILDINGS.
THIS DENSITY IS ABSOLUTELY
APPROPRIATE FOR THE SURROUNDING
AREA CONTRARY TO THE PRIOR
SPEAKER, THIS IS NOT SPOT
ZONING.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS WITH
HIGH DEMAND FOR HOUSING AND NOT
ENOUGH SUPPLY.
THIS WILL ADD A SIGNIFICANT
NUMBER OF UNITS TO OUR LOCAL
HOUSING SUPPLY.
THAT IN ITSELF IS A BENEFIT TO
OUR CITY AS WE KNOW, UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HAS ADDED MANY
STUDENTS TO OUR POPULATION
WITHOUT PROVIDING ENOUGH
HOUSING FOR THEM.
THAT NEED WILL HAVE TO BE
FILLED BY THE PRIVATE MARKET
AND THAT WON'T HAPPEN UNLESS
COUNCIL APPROVES SUCH
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE APPROPRIATE
LOCATIONS WHICH THIS SITE
ABSOLUTELY IS THE LOCATION IS
EASILY WALKABLE TO CAMPUS AND
TO LOCAL BUSINESSES THAT ARE
FREQUENTED BY STUDENTS.
IT'S HALF A BLOCK FROM RIK'S
WORLD FAMOUS FARFALLE KITTY
CORNER FROM PIZZA HOUSE AFTER
ALL IT'S RIGHT IN THE THICK
OF THINGS IN TERMS OF STUDENT
LIVING SO RESIDENTS WILL LIKELY
NOT NEED TO DRIVE MUCH.
THIS IS GREAT BECAUSE WE'RE
ALSO IN A CLIMATE CRISIS AND AS
SUCH ARE TRYING TO CUT VEHICLE
MILES TRAVELED IN HALF.
I LOVE THAT THEY'RE UNBUNDLING
PARKING.
I HOPE THAT MORE DEVELOPMENTS
FOLLOW SUIT GETTING RESIDENTS
CLOSE TO THEIR DESTINATIONS AND
OUT OF THEIR CARS HELPS OUR H0
GOALS AS WELL AS OUR VISION
ZERO GOALS.
FURTHERMORE, THIS BUILDING
WOULD PAY MORE THAN SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS INTO OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
THIS WILL APPROXIMATELY MATCH
THE ANNUAL REVENUE FROM OUR
FACILITIES, DOUBLING HOW THE
MONEY GOING INTO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN THE YEAR WE RECEIVED
THAT CONTRIBUTION.
THE HOUSING COMMISSION CAN
LEVERAGE THOSE FUNDS INTO MORE
WONDERFUL DEVELOPMENTS LIKE ONE
TWENTY ONE KATHERINE THE
TWILIGHT OF FIFTH AND WILLIAM
AND OTHER PROJECTS COMING DOWN
THE PIKE THEY'LL ALSO BE
CONTRIBUTING TO PARKS AND
PUBLIC RESTROOMS.
THE BENEFITS TO THE CITY ARE
MANIFEST.
PLEASE VOTE YES ON SEE ONE
TONIGHT.
THANK THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE HANK BARRY
HANK
HANK IN HERE.
YES, YES.
WE CAN INHIBIT OK GREAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH HANK AARON
THROUGH THE WALL.
I'M AGAINST THE PROPOSAL.
THIS PROPOSAL DOESN'T CHANGE TO
ALLOW YET ANOTHER TOWERING MEGA
LUXURY AND SHOULD NOT BE
APPROVED.
I THINK IT'S A MEASURE OF HOW
DYSFUNCTIONAL OUR CITY
GOVERNMENT HAS BECOME.
WE HAVE TO SAY OUT LOUD THE
COUNCIL SHOULD NOT APPROVE
OF DEVELOPMENT.
PLANNERS HAVE REJECTED SOME
OF THE WHERE WE'RE GOING AS ALL
PART OF THE ONGOING
NEGOTIATIONS THAT THE
DEVELOPERS PROPOSAL SHOULD BE
SEEN ONLY AS THE BASIS FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
PLANNING BEFORE THEY WILL SAY
THAT SURELY THE DEVELOPER CAN
BE FORCED TO PROVIDE ASSURANCES
SIZE REDUCTIONS AND MONEY IN
ORDER TO RECEIVE THE ZONING
CHANGE THE PARAMETERS PERCH ARE
LOOSE FROM A PROCESS
PERSPECTIVE IS THAT THE PUBLIC
HAS NO ROLE IN THESE NONPUBLIC
NEGOTIATIONS.
THEY INEVITABLY WILL LEAD TO
DEVELOPMENTS THAT REFLECT
PRIMARILY THE INTERESTS OF THE
DEVELOPERS AND PERHAPS THE CITY
OFFICIALS, NOT THE PUBLIC.
RECENT HISTORY WITH SEVEN
TWENTY ON FOREST AND THE
PROPOSED SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
HOTEL SHOWED THAT THE CITY AND
I HAVE TO INCLUDE MOST OF THE
ADMINISTRATION SEES NO PROBLEM
WITH CARRYING ON THESE
NEGOTIATIONS FOR ZONING CHANGES
OUR VIEW OF THE PUBLIC THERE'S
NOTHING SPECIAL ABOUT
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH TODAY.
IT COULD HAPPEN ANYWHERE IN THE
CITY UNDER THE CURRENT SYSTEM
BECAUSE THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENTS IGNORE IT AND
DEVELOPERS ARE SEEN AS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN RESIDENTS.
INCIDENTALLY, THE DEVELOPER
HERE, AUSTIN, TEXAS BASED ELVIE
COLLECTIVE HAS WORKED STUDENT
BUILDINGS IN ATLANTA ONE CALLED
THE RAMLA LANCE ONE HUNDRED
NINETY EIGHT VOTES AND AUSTIN
THAT'S THE RAMBLA AUSTIN SEVEN
HUNDRED AND NINETY SIX VOTES.
THE REJECTED PROPOSAL FOR A
THOUSAND ELEVEN BUT THIS
IMPLIES DEVELOPERS ECONOMICS
WORK WILL WORK FOR THEM AT
SEVEN HUNDRED NINETY SIX AND
OF COURSE YOU'LL SEE A NUMBER
JUST LIKE THAT IN THE REVISED
PROPOSAL.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE POINT.
THE CITY SHOULD NOT CONTINUE
NEGOTIATING ON THIS.
LUCIUS SO ELOQUENTLY PUT IT THE
CITY IS SUBSIDIZING THE
UNIVERSITY'S EXPANSION.
THE UNIVERSITY SHOULD BUILD THE
HOUSING FOR ITS STUDENTS.
THE CITY HAS NO COMPELLING
REASON TO APPROVE THIS ONLY
CHANGE OR FACILITATE THE
CONSTRUCTION OF YET ANOTHER
MEGA STUDENT AND TO BUILD
ANOTHER CLASS AND HAS HAD
ENOUGH THE CITY CAN AND SHOULD
JUST SAY NO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE BRIAN CHAMBERS
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS BRIAN CHAMBERS.
I'M A FORTY YEAR RESIDENT
OF ANN ARBOR.
I'M RAISE MY CHILDREN HERE AND
I CURRENTLY LIVE WITH MY WIFE
IN THE THIRD WARD.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF THE FOUR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT RESOLUTIONS BEFORE
COUNCIL TODAY INCLUDING DC ONE
DUCATION OF THE OFFICE
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND DC
TWO ON HOUSING AFFORDABILITY DC
THREE ON SUSTAINABILITY AND DC
FOR AN PLACEMAKING AND
INCREASING THE TAX BASE.
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR AS I
UNDERSTAND CAN ALSO OFFER
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS TO
STRENGTHEN THESE RESOLUTIONS SO
WRITTEN ON A NUMBER OF THEM.
SO IF THERE ARE ITEMS MISSING
LIKE ON SUSTAINABILITY FOR
PASSIVE HOUSE DESIGN BETTER
THAN ZERO BY THE WAY I WOULD
LOOK TO THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO CONSIDER THOSE AND BRING
THOSE PROPOSALS BACK TO
COUNCIL.
THERE'S AMPLE OPPORTUNITY FOR
SOME OF THESE HAVE TWO YEAR
TIME HORIZONS TO DEVELOP
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IS
CONDUCTED BY THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR MAY BE BEST CHARACTERIZED
AS AD HOC AND REACTIVE TO DATE,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES TO THE
CITY'S ROLE IN RESPONDING TO
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS SUBMITTED
BY DEVELOPERS PROJECT APPROACH
THAT PRIORITIZES OUR CITY
OBJECTIVES FOR HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY, SUSTAINABILITY
AND PLACEMAKING IS CLEARLY
FOCUSED ON THE WELL-BEING
OF CURRENT AND FUTURE RESIDENTS
AS WELL AS COMMUTERS WHO TRAVEL
IN AND OUT THAN EVER ON A DAILY
BASIS.
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY IS AN
IMPORTANT COMPONENT OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT THAT IMPACTS
SEVERAL LEVELS OF GROWTH
INCLUDING BUSINESS FORMATION.
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY ALSO
IMPACTS LOCATION DECISIONS ARE
BOTH POTENTIAL EMPLOYEES AND
EMPLOYERS.
HIGHER COST HOUSING CAN TRIGGER
PRODUCTIVE PEOPLE TO LEAVE
MARKETS AND MAY LIMIT THE
ABILITY OF LOWER INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS TO ENTER OUR LOCAL
MARKET.
HIGHER LEVELS OF REGULATION ARE
NOW WELL KNOWN TO DRIVE UP THE
COST OF HOUSING ON THIS BASIS
THE INITIATIVE FOR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT OUTLINED IN THESE
RESOLUTIONS IS LONG OVERDUE.
PLACEMAKING IS PROBABLY ONE
OF THE KEY ELEMENTS OF THIS
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE
AND I ENCOURAGE YOU TO CONSIDER
PLACEMAKING FOR EACH OF THE TCW
DISTRICTS AS WELL AS THE
DOWNTOWN DISTRICT THAT INCLUDES
TWO REGIONAL TRANSIT CENTERS
RIPE FOR INCREASED HOUSING FOR
EMPLOYMENT, FOR WORK AND FOR
LEISURE ACTIVITIES CITY LAND
ACQUISITION WITH OBJECTIVES FOR
LOW AND MIDDLE INCOME HOUSING
CAN LEVERAGE THE STYLE OF CODE
DEVELOPMENT BEING CONSIDERED
FOR THE 350 S FOR BOTH LOW
INCOME AND MIDDLE INCOME
HOUSING AS I UNDERSTAND ONE
OF THE PROPOSALS ENTAILS THIS
COULD BE LEVERAGED FOR MORE
LAND ACQUISITION AND USE LAND
TRUSTS OR JUST RETAINING PUBLIC
OWNERSHIP TO HAVE THOSE TAX
PRODUCING PROPERTIES AS WELL
EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE ON CITY
LAND.
IF THE HOUSING ITSELF
COMMERCIALIZED THEY CAN BE
TAXED.
THE ENTIRE AREA HAS GROWN OVER
THE PAST TWENTY YEARS PRIMARILY
DUE TO THE USE OF COMES
INCREASED STAFF AND STUDENTS.
IN FACT THE UNION'S GROWTH
EXCEEDED THAT OF THE WHOLE
COUNTY OVER THE PAST TWENTY
YEARS.
IF YOU THEN CONTINUES ITS
GROWTH TRAJECTORY EVEN IF HALF
ITS PRIOR RATE WE CAN EXPECT
THIRTY TWO THOUSAND PEOPLE,
EMPLOYEES AND STUDENTS BY 2050.
THANK YOU FOR HOUSING IS NOT
DEVELOPED WITHIN THE CITY THEN
IT'LL DEVELOP OUTSIDE OF THE
CITY LEADING TO MORE
CONGESTION.
THANK ROLE AND PROPERTY TAXES
GOING TO OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT.
YOU'LL HAVE YOUR TIME.
NEXT UP WE HAVE EDWARDSVILLE
EDWARD.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS PHIL.
MANY LIVE IN THE LOWER PART
NEIGHBORHOOD ON THE FOURTH
WARD.
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THE
CONSENT AGENDA FOR THE PARKING
NOT PARKING PAVING PROJECT
WHICH AS I UNDERSTAND INCLUDES
A SIDEWALK ALONG PAIGE AVENUE.
THIS IS A VERY GOOD THING TO
SEE PAGES WIDELY USED BY
RESIDENTS AND NEIGHBORS, EVEN
SOME FAR AWAY NEIGHBORS AS A
LOW STRESS BICYCLE FRIENDLY
ROUTE TO GO FROM THE SOUTH SIDE
OF TOWN TOWARDS THE CENTER
OF TOWN.
AND I'VE ACTUALLY HAD A
SUCCESSFUL ROUTE THAT TAKES ME
ALL THE WAY WOULD TAKE ME ALL
THE WAY FROM DOWNTOWN TO THE
NEW BICENTENNIAL PARK AT THE
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK USING A
COMBINATION OF ROUTES BETWEEN
PARKS AND AND THE THE OVERPASS
THROUGH MARY BARTHWELL PARK.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE CITY
USE ITS SPENDING FUNDS TOWARDS
THESE SIDEWALK AND BICYCLE PATH
IMPROVEMENTS GIVEN THAT THOSE
SORTS OF IMPROVEMENTS THEN WE
HAVE A LIFE SPAN THAT'S MUCH
LONGER THAN THE TYPICAL STREET
PAVEMENTS BECAUSE THE BURDEN ON
THE ON THE STREETS IS SO MUCH
LOWER FROM THE LIGHTER WEIGHT
VEHICLES AND PEDESTRIANS.
IN CONCLUSION, I AM HOPEFUL
THAT THE CITY WILL CONTINUE TO
EXPAND OUT ITS BICYCLE PATHS
AND BICYCLE RIDES AND HOPEFULLY
EITHER IN THIS PROJECT OR IN
FUTURE PROJECTS DO GET READY TO
SIGN THOSE ROUTES SO THAT NOT
ONLY CAN WE GET AROUND DOWNTOWN
ON A BICYCLE BUT IT'S ALSO
OBVIOUS EVIDENT HOW TO GET TO
DOWNTOWN FROM THE VARIOUS
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE JOHN GODFREY.
MY NAME IS JOHN GODFREY AND I'M
THANK YOU.
A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
MY NAME IS JOHN GODFREY AND I'M
I REGRET THAT A NUMBER
A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
OF MEMBERS THE COUNCIL ARE
I REGRET THAT A NUMBER
ABSENT THIS EVENING
OF MEMBERS THE COUNCIL ARE
PARTICULARLY SINCE THERE'S AT
ABSENT THIS EVENING
LEAST A COUPLE OF VERISIGN
PARTICULARLY SINCE THERE'S AT
ITEMS ON YOUR AGENDA.
LEAST A COUPLE OF VERISIGN
BUT NO DOUBT THE REASONS THAT
ITEMS ON YOUR AGENDA.
KEEP THEM AWAY ARE EXIGENT
BUT NO DOUBT THE REASONS THAT
COUNCIL'S LAST MEETING I ASKED
KEEP THEM AWAY ARE EXIGENT
THE STEERING COMMITTEE FOR THE
COUNCIL'S LAST MEETING I ASKED
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MEETS BEHIND
THE STEERING COMMITTEE FOR THE
CLOSED DOORS AND WHY NO MINUTES
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MEETS BEHIND
ARE KEPT OF THEIR DISCUSSIONS.
CLOSED DOORS AND WHY NO MINUTES
IN AN EMAIL RESPONSE COUNCIL
ARE KEPT OF THEIR DISCUSSIONS.
MEMBER DISH KINDLY POINTED OUT
IN AN EMAIL RESPONSE COUNCIL
THAT THE STEERING COMMITTEE IN
MEMBER DISH KINDLY POINTED OUT
ACTUAL FACT DOES NO STEERING AT
THAT THE STEERING COMMITTEE IN
ALL AND THAT ITS ROLE IS LESS
ACTUAL FACT DOES NO STEERING AT
CENTRAL THAN THE IMPRESSION
ALL AND THAT ITS ROLE IS LESS
THAT I MAY HAVE FORMED
CENTRAL THAN THE IMPRESSION
ACCORDING TO LISA RATHER THE
THAT I MAY HAVE FORMED
COMMITTEE'S APPARENT ROLE IS
ACCORDING TO LISA RATHER THE
MERELY TO ADVISE ABOUT HOW TO
COMMITTEE'S APPARENT ROLE IS
QUOTE APPROACH PUBLIC
MERELY TO ADVISE ABOUT HOW TO
CONVERSATIONS.
QUOTE APPROACH PUBLIC
HOW CAN THIS BE?
CONVERSATIONS.
LAST MORE THAN 100 RESIDENTS
HOW CAN THIS BE?
APPLIED IN GOOD FAITH TO SERVE
LAST MORE THAN 100 RESIDENTS
ON THIS COMMITTEE WHOSE
APPLIED IN GOOD FAITH TO SERVE
ADVERTISED PURPOSE INCLUDED
ON THIS COMMITTEE WHOSE
QUOTE ASSISTING IN CONDUCTING
ADVERTISED PURPOSE INCLUDED
RESEARCH, CHECKING ASSUMPTIONS
QUOTE ASSISTING IN CONDUCTING
AND PROVIDING INSIGHT AND
RESEARCH, CHECKING ASSUMPTIONS
FEEDBACK INTO THE COMMUNITY AND
AND PROVIDING INSIGHT AND
HELPING VALIDATE VALUES,
FEEDBACK INTO THE COMMUNITY AND
RECOMMENDATIONS AND CONCEPTS
HELPING VALIDATE VALUES,
PRESENTED IN THE PLAN.
RECOMMENDATIONS AND CONCEPTS
PLANNING DIRECTOR LEONARD
PRESENTED IN THE PLAN.
INTRODUCED NAMES OF NEW
PLANNING DIRECTOR LEONARD
COMMITTEE MEMBERS BY SAYING I
INTRODUCED NAMES OF NEW
WAS REALLY BLOWN AWAY BY JUST
COMMITTEE MEMBERS BY SAYING I
THE EXPERTIZE OF THE
WAS REALLY BLOWN AWAY BY JUST
APPLICATIONS WE RECEIVED.
THE EXPERTIZE OF THE
THERE WERE MANY QUALIFIED
APPLICATIONS WE RECEIVED.
PEOPLE.
THERE WERE MANY QUALIFIED
SURELY THE NUMBER DIVERSITY AND
PEOPLE.
QUALITY OF THESE APPLICATIONS
SURELY THE NUMBER DIVERSITY AND
IS PROOF OF STRONG PUBLIC
QUALITY OF THESE APPLICATIONS
INTEREST AND HELPING TO ASSURE
IS PROOF OF STRONG PUBLIC
A PLAN THAT BEST ALIGNS WITH A
INTEREST AND HELPING TO ASSURE
SHARED ASPIRATIONS OF ALL
A PLAN THAT BEST ALIGNS WITH A
RESIDENTS OF ANN ARBOR COUNCIL
SHARED ASPIRATIONS OF ALL
MEMBER DISH ALSO NOTED THAT THE
RESIDENTS OF ANN ARBOR COUNCIL
STEERING COMMITTEE IS NOT AN
MEMBER DISH ALSO NOTED THAT THE
AUTHORITATIVE BODY BUT ALMOST
STEERING COMMITTEE IS NOT AN
NONE OF THE CITY'S 26 BOARDS
AUTHORITATIVE BODY BUT ALMOST
AND COMMITTEES HOLD INDEPENDENT
NONE OF THE CITY'S 26 BOARDS
AUTHORITY AND YET THESE VARIOUS
AND COMMITTEES HOLD INDEPENDENT
BODIES MAKE PUBLIC MINUTES
AUTHORITY AND YET THESE VARIOUS
OF THEIR MEETINGS AND AVAILABLE
BODIES MAKE PUBLIC MINUTES
AND NEARLY ALL ARE VISIBLE ON
OF THEIR MEETINGS AND AVAILABLE
C10 OR VIA IN MEETINGS.
AND NEARLY ALL ARE VISIBLE ON
SO WHY THE EXCEPTION FOR THE
C10 OR VIA IN MEETINGS.
STEERING COMMITTEE IN 1991
SO WHY THE EXCEPTION FOR THE
COUNCIL ADOPTED A RESOLUTION
STEERING COMMITTEE IN 1991
THAT ALL BOARDS, TASK FORCES
COUNCIL ADOPTED A RESOLUTION
AND COMMITTEES SHOULD BE OPEN
THAT ALL BOARDS, TASK FORCES
TO THE PUBLIC COUNCIL
AND COMMITTEES SHOULD BE OPEN
REAFFIRMED THIS COMMITMENT WHEN
TO THE PUBLIC COUNCIL
IT PASSED A RESOLUTION THAT IS
REAFFIRMED THIS COMMITMENT WHEN
MEETINGS MEET THIS 30 YEAR OLD
IT PASSED A RESOLUTION THAT IS
REQUIREMENT HOW SHOULD THE
MEETINGS MEET THIS 30 YEAR OLD
PUBLIC UNDERSTAND COUNCIL'S
REQUIREMENT HOW SHOULD THE
RESISTANCE TO OPEN STEERING
PUBLIC UNDERSTAND COUNCIL'S
COMMITTEE MEETINGS?
RESISTANCE TO OPEN STEERING
COULD IT BE THAT THE COUNCIL
COMMITTEE MEETINGS?
HAS NO REAL INTEREST IN BROAD
COULD IT BE THAT THE COUNCIL
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT IN SHAPING
HAS NO REAL INTEREST IN BROAD
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THAT
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT IN SHAPING
THE ROLE OF THE STEERING
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THAT
COMMITTEE IS SIMPLY TO
THE ROLE OF THE STEERING
LEGITIMATE PREDETERMINED
COMMITTEE IS SIMPLY TO
OUTCOMES AND OUR STRENGTH COMES
LEGITIMATE PREDETERMINED
FROM ITS RESIDENTS SHARED
OUTCOMES AND OUR STRENGTH COMES
COMMITMENT TO A VIBRANT
FROM ITS RESIDENTS SHARED
WELCOMING AND FORWARD LOOKING
COMMITMENT TO A VIBRANT
CITY COUNCIL'S DECISION TO KEEP
WELCOMING AND FORWARD LOOKING
THESE MEETINGS OUT OF PUBLIC
CITY COUNCIL'S DECISION TO KEEP
VIEW CANNOT BUT HELP RAISE
THESE MEETINGS OUT OF PUBLIC
QUESTIONS ABOUT POSSIBLE
VIEW CANNOT BUT HELP RAISE
UNDERLYING MOTIVES.
QUESTIONS ABOUT POSSIBLE
PUBLIC OFFICE CARRIES THE
UNDERLYING MOTIVES.
BURDEN OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE
PUBLIC OFFICE CARRIES THE
PUBLIC TRANSPARENCY SAFEGUARDS
BURDEN OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE
PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY.
PUBLIC TRANSPARENCY SAFEGUARDS
THESE PRINCIPLES HAVE SPECIAL
PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY.
URGENCY THIS YEAR AND SO I ASK
THESE PRINCIPLES HAVE SPECIAL
AGAIN THAT AS IS REQUIRED FOR
URGENCY THIS YEAR AND SO I ASK
EVERY CITY COMMITTEE, THE
AGAIN THAT AS IS REQUIRED FOR
COUNCIL DIRECT THE MEETINGS
EVERY CITY COMMITTEE, THE
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
COUNCIL DIRECT THE MEETINGS
STEERING COMMITTEE BE MADE
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
PUBLIC AND THAT THEIR MINUTES
STEERING COMMITTEE BE MADE
BE PUBLISHED.
PUBLIC AND THAT THEIR MINUTES
THANK THANK YOU.
BE PUBLISHED.
NEXT UP WE HAVE JEFF CROCKET.
THANK THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME SPEAK.
NEXT UP WE HAVE JEFF CROCKET.
I KNOW IT'S OVER TIME
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME SPEAK.
LIMITATION PROBABLY.
I KNOW IT'S OVER TIME
MY NAME IS JEFF CRACKA AND I AM
LIMITATION PROBABLY.
HAPPY NEWS .
MY NAME IS JEFF CRACKA AND I AM
I SERVE AS A CHAIR OF THE
HAPPY NEWS .
HISTORY SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THE
I SERVE AS A CHAIR OF THE
BICENTENNIAL.
HISTORY SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THE
OUR COMMITTEE WORK REPRESENTS A
BICENTENNIAL.
REMARKABLE COLLABORATION WITH
OUR COMMITTEE WORK REPRESENTS A
THE FOLLOWING LOCAL HISTORIC
REMARKABLE COLLABORATION WITH
PRESERVATION GROUPS AND
THE FOLLOWING LOCAL HISTORIC
ORGANIZATIONS THE ARBOR
PRESERVATION GROUPS AND
HISTORIC FOUNDATION, THE
ORGANIZATIONS THE ARBOR
WASHTENAW COUNTY HISTORIC
HISTORIC FOUNDATION, THE
SOCIETY HISTORICAL SOCIETY, THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY HISTORIC
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
SOCIETY HISTORICAL SOCIETY, THE
DISTRICT ASSOCIATION, THE WEST
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
SIDE ASSOCIATION, THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT ASSOCIATION, THE WEST
DISTRICT LIBRARY.
SIDE ASSOCIATION, THE ANN ARBOR
THE BENTLY CAMP HOUSE AND THE
DISTRICT LIBRARY.
COBBLESTONED FARM OUR MEMBERS
THE BENTLY CAMP HOUSE AND THE
INCLUDE PATRICK MCCAULEY, SUSAN
COBBLESTONED FARM OUR MEMBERS
WEINBERG, AMY KANTA, CHRISTINE
INCLUDE PATRICK MCCAULEY, SUSAN
BREHMER, TOM STOLLBERG,
WEINBERG, AMY KANTA, CHRISTINE
CHRISTINE CROCKET, PATTI SMITH
BREHMER, TOM STOLLBERG,
KAREN JOHN BEV WILLIS, GRACE
CHRISTINE CROCKET, PATTI SMITH
SHACKMAN, FRAN WRIGHT, ELLEN
KAREN JOHN BEV WILLIS, GRACE
HABER PASTOR PAT AUSTIN,
SHACKMAN, FRAN WRIGHT, ELLEN
MICHELLE MCCLELLAND NORM TYLER
HABER PASTOR PAT AUSTIN,
ELLEN RAMSBURG ANNE RICE JOHN
MICHELLE MCCLELLAND NORM TYLER
AND CHERYL MCKAY.
ELLEN RAMSBURG ANNE RICE JOHN
WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK AMY
AND CHERYL MCKAY.
KARBO DESTINATION.
WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK AMY
ANN ARBOR HAS POSTED OUR EVENTS
KARBO DESTINATION.
AND TIMELINE ON THE
ANN ARBOR HAS POSTED OUR EVENTS
BICENTENNIAL WEB SITE.
AND TIMELINE ON THE
COLLECTIVELY WE HAVE SPENT MANY
BICENTENNIAL WEB SITE.
HUNDREDS OF HOURS CREATING
COLLECTIVELY WE HAVE SPENT MANY
EVENTS AND WORKING ON PROPOSALS
HUNDREDS OF HOURS CREATING
FOR THE ANN ARBOR BICENTENNIAL,
EVENTS AND WORKING ON PROPOSALS
THE ANN ARBOR SMART TOURS
FOR THE ANN ARBOR BICENTENNIAL,
PROJECT IS INCREDIBLE.
THE ANN ARBOR SMART TOURS
IF YOU HAVEN'T GONE THERE, TAKE
PROJECT IS INCREDIBLE.
A LOOK AND YOU CAN TAKE
LOOK BY
GOOGLING A FEW SMART TOURS
WHICH WILL TAKE YOU TO THE
LIBRARY WEBSITE.
IT WILL LIST ALL OF THE
CONTRIBUTORS.
NORM TYLER IS THE CHAIR.
TOM STOLLBERG IS A CO-CHAIR
THANKS TO ANDREW MACLAREN FOR
UPLOADING ALL FIFTEEN TOURS
COVERING ONE HUNDRED SEVENTY
SEVEN SITES TO THE LIBRARY
WEBSITE.
THE E2 BICENTENNIAL BIRTHDAY
CELEBRATION IS I'M PLEASED TO
ANNOUNCE ON MAY THE 25TH AND WE
HOPE YOU ALL COME.
IT IS CO-SPONSORED BY THE
BICENTENNIAL HISTORY
SUBCOMMITTEE IN THE LIBRARY
GREEN CONSERVANCY BOARD
INCLUDES A TOO SMART TO KICK
OFF A BICENTENNIAL QUIZ CONTEST
SPEECHES REFLECTING THE
DIVERSITY OF ANN ARBOR ON THE
TOPIC WHAT IS THE BICENTENNIAL
MEAN TO ME?
REFRESHMENTS AND A BIRTHDAY
CAKE MUSIC WILL BE PROVIDED BY
RALPH MCKIE BLUES BAND.
THIS EVENT IS BEING COORDINATED
WITH ONE HELD ON THE LIBRARY
LOT BY ALAN HABER THE
BICENTENNIAL MULTIPLE-CHOICE
CUI'S HAS EVOLVED FROM A TRIVIA
TEST INTO A PROJECT TO
CELEBRATE THE DIVERSITY OF OUR
PAST AND SHARE THE
CONTRIBUTIONS OF SOME LONG
FORGOTTEN AND ARBITRATES
CONTRIBUTORS INCLUDE JEFF AND
CHRISTINE CROCKETTS AND
WEINBERG NORM AND EILEEN TYLER,
BEV WILLIS, SHIRLEY BLECKLEY
STOLLBERG PATTI SMITH MICHELLE
MACLELLAN HEIDI METZKER JULIE
TRACY VANDALISM LYNN BURSET,
PETER ECKSTEIN, KATIE ELLEN
HABOUR.
ANDY CROCKER.
AMY SETU ALMA MORALEZ, DR.
LOUIS SHALABI, POLLY PAN
ARTEMUS LEOTIS FUZZILY BERGLAS.
CLAIRE KINBERG, ELIZABETH
BISHOP, ANDREW MACLAREN AND
INPUT TO THIS I AM PLEASED TO
REPORT THAT WE HAVE REACHED OUR
GOAL OF TWO HUNDRED QUESTIONS
STARTING MAY 25TH THE QUIZ WILL
BE ROLLED OUT WITH TEN
QUESTIONS POSTED EACH WEEK ON
THE BICENTENNIAL WEBSITE AT THE
AT THE WEBSITE BUT THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
I HOPE YOU SHOW UP.
I'LL SEE YOU THERE.
THANK YOU.
HAVING REACHED THE KING, HAVING
REACHED THE CONCLUSION OF OUR
FORTY FIVE MINUTE PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVED TIME FOR THE
BEGINNING OF THE MEETING WE
WILL CONTINUE ON WITH THE
AGENDA AND CIRCLE BACK AROUND
TO REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENTERS
AT THE END OF OUR MEETING.
NEXT UP, WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COUNCIL.
DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON AS PART
OF MY CONTINUING COMMITMENT TO
CONSTITUENT ENGAGEMENT?
I'LL BE HOSTING A COFFEE HOUR
ON SUNDAY, APRIL 21ST FROM
THREE TO FOUR THIRTY PM AT
PANERA BREAD ON WASHTENAW.
PLEASE COME WITH QUESTIONS AND
COMMENTS AND I'LL ALSO BE
JOINED BY WORLD CANDIDATE JOHN
MALIK.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO ADDRESS YOU
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SITTING IN
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO ADDRESS YOU
FOR ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SITTING IN
I JUST ALSO WANTED TO ANNOUNCE
FOR ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT.
THAT CYNTHIA HARRISON AND I
I JUST ALSO WANTED TO ANNOUNCE
WILL BE HAVING OUR QUARTERLY
THAT CYNTHIA HARRISON AND I
COFFEE HOUR ON WEDNESDAY APRIL
WILL BE HAVING OUR QUARTERLY
4TH AT SIX PM AT THE ANN ARBOR
COFFEE HOUR ON WEDNESDAY APRIL
DISTRICT LIBRARY AND THAT'S ALL
4TH AT SIX PM AT THE ANN ARBOR
I WANT TO SAY FOR OF COUNCILMAN
DISTRICT LIBRARY AND THAT'S ALL
BRACKMAN.
I WANT TO SAY FOR OF COUNCILMAN
THANK YOU.
BRACKMAN.
I WANTED TO LET FOLKS KNOW
THANK YOU.
ABOUT A RESIDENT PURCHASABLE
I WANTED TO LET FOLKS KNOW
MEETING FOR A WARD FOR THE
ABOUT A RESIDENT PURCHASABLE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
MEETING FOR A WARD FOR THE
THIS IS FOR A TWO HUNDRED AND
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
TWENTY FIVE UNIT DEVELOPMENT
THIS IS FOR A TWO HUNDRED AND
NEXT TO WHOLE FOODS ON
TWENTY FIVE UNIT DEVELOPMENT
UNIVERSALLY ROAD.
NEXT TO WHOLE FOODS ON
THE MEETING IS THURSDAY, APRIL
UNIVERSALLY ROAD.
4TH FROM SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY AT
THE MEETING IS THURSDAY, APRIL
VANUA 1919 S INDUSTRIAL.
4TH FROM SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY AT
THIS PROPOSAL IS SEEKING
VANUA 1919 S INDUSTRIAL.
REZONING CURRENTLY THE SPACES
THIS PROPOSAL IS SEEKING
OWNED OFFICE AND THEY ARE
REZONING CURRENTLY THE SPACES
SEEKING TO HAVE IT REZONED FOR
OWNED OFFICE AND THEY ARE
RESIDENTIAL SO AGAIN THE
SEEKING TO HAVE IT REZONED FOR
MEETING IS THURSDAY FROM SIX TO
RESIDENTIAL SO AGAIN THE
SEVEN THIRTY SIX.
MEETING IS THURSDAY FROM SIX TO
THANK YOU ALL COMMUNICATIONS
SEVEN THIRTY SIX.
FROM COUNCIL MEMBERS ON I'D
THANK YOU ALL COMMUNICATIONS
LIKE TO SAY SOMETHING REALLY
FROM COUNCIL MEMBERS ON I'D
QUICKLY ABOUT THE ABSENCES HERE
LIKE TO SAY SOMETHING REALLY
IN COUNCIL AND THE CHALLENGES
QUICKLY ABOUT THE ABSENCES HERE
THAT FOLKS FACE PERSONALLY IN
IN COUNCIL AND THE CHALLENGES
THEIR OWN PERSONAL LIVES.
THAT FOLKS FACE PERSONALLY IN
SOMETIMES THEY MAKE IT HERE
THEIR OWN PERSONAL LIVES.
WHEN CHILDREN, SPOUSES OR THEY
SOMETIMES THEY MAKE IT HERE
THEMSELVES ARE ILL.
WHEN CHILDREN, SPOUSES OR THEY
MY FATHER IS IN CRITICAL
THEMSELVES ARE ILL.
CONDITION TWO WEEKS AGO AND I
MY FATHER IS IN CRITICAL
FELT THE LOVE AND SUPPORT FROM
CONDITION TWO WEEKS AGO AND I
COLLEAGUES HERE AND THAT THEIR
FELT THE LOVE AND SUPPORT FROM
GRACE WHEN THEY SAID THAT I IT
COLLEAGUES HERE AND THAT THEIR
WOULD'VE BEEN FINE IF I DIDN'T
GRACE WHEN THEY SAID THAT I IT
SHOW UP TODAY BUT I DID AND AND
WOULD'VE BEEN FINE IF I DIDN'T
I KNOW MY COLLEAGUES WOULD WANT
SHOW UP TODAY BUT I DID AND AND
TO BE HERE TOO IF THEY COULD.
I KNOW MY COLLEAGUES WOULD WANT
SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANKS
TO BE HERE TOO IF THEY COULD.
FOR THIS IS THIS IS A GROUP
SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANKS
THAT CARES ABOUT COMMUNITY AND
FOR THIS IS THIS IS A GROUP
FOR EACH OTHER EVERY DAY AND
THAT CARES ABOUT COMMUNITY AND
THEY DEMONSTRATE IN MORE WAYS
FOR EACH OTHER EVERY DAY AND
THAN HERE ON C10 OR WITH
THEY DEMONSTRATE IN MORE WAYS
CONSTITUENTS.
THAN HERE ON C10 OR WITH
SO THANK YOU.
CONSTITUENTS.
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
SO THANK YOU.
FROM FOR MY PART I WOULD ALSO
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
LIKE TO ANNOUNCE AN UPCOMING
FROM FOR MY PART I WOULD ALSO
COFFEE HOUR WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
LIKE TO ANNOUNCE AN UPCOMING
GHAZI EDWYN ON APRIL 21ST AT 10
COFFEE HOUR WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
A.M. WE WILL BE AT THE EMAILS
GHAZI EDWYN ON APRIL 21ST AT 10
CREEK BRANCH OF THE DISTRICT
A.M. WE WILL BE AT THE EMAILS
LIBRARY AND WILL HAVE CHIEF
CREEK BRANCH OF THE DISTRICT
ANDERSON WITH US AS A SPECIAL
LIBRARY AND WILL HAVE CHIEF
GUEST FOR AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
ANDERSON WITH US AS A SPECIAL
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO MEET
GUEST FOR AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
HIM AT.
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO MEET
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO REQUEST
HIM AT.
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO REQUEST
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
TO THE CITY COUNCIL AT THE
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
MARCH 18TH REGULAR SESSION TO
TO THE CITY COUNCIL AT THE
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
MARCH 18TH REGULAR SESSION TO
AUTHORITY.
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
KIM MAISE, MAY I HAVE A MOTION
AUTHORITY.
CORNELL AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
KIM MAISE, MAY I HAVE A MOTION
MEMBER IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
CORNELL AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
ON PAPER OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED
MEMBER IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
.
ON PAPER OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
.
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
YOUR CONSIDERATION AT OUR NEXT
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR
MEETING IT WOULD BE TO THE
YOUR CONSIDERATION AT OUR NEXT
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
MEETING IT WOULD BE TO THE
ELIZABETH BARRY WE NOW HAVE THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CONSENT AGENDA BEFORE US.
ELIZABETH BARRY WE NOW HAVE THE
I DO HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
CONSENT AGENDA BEFORE US.
THE CONSENT AGENDA WATSON AND
I DO HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
SECONDED A COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THE CONSENT AGENDA WATSON AND
IS THERE DISCUSSION OF THE
SECONDED A COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
IS THERE DISCUSSION OF THE
DESH I DON'T WANT TO PULL
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
ANYTHING.
DESH I DON'T WANT TO PULL
I JUST WANTED TO MENTION HOW
ANYTHING.
EXCITED I AM TO SEE SEE A14
I JUST WANTED TO MENTION HOW
WHICH IF WE APPROVE IT WILL
EXCITED I AM TO SEE SEE A14
GRANT FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
WHICH IF WE APPROVE IT WILL
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM THE
GRANT FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM THE
VILLAGE TO THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
VILLAGE TO THE ANN ARBOR
TO SUPPORT INSTALLATION
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS
TO SUPPORT INSTALLATION
INCLUDING SOLAR READINESS AND
OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS
GEOTHERMAL FOR ONE E CATHERINE
INCLUDING SOLAR READINESS AND
THIS IS SHOWING THAT WE ARE
GEOTHERMAL FOR ONE E CATHERINE
HAVING COLLABORATE BETWEEN OUR
THIS IS SHOWING THAT WE ARE
AFFORDABILITY STAFFS AND THE
HAVING COLLABORATE BETWEEN OUR
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABLE CITY AND
AFFORDABILITY STAFFS AND THE
INNOVATION, OUR SUSTAINABILITY
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABLE CITY AND
STAFF ON THE CITY PROJECTS FOR
INNOVATION, OUR SUSTAINABILITY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT WE'RE
STAFF ON THE CITY PROJECTS FOR
PUTTING FORWARD AND I'M PLEASED
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT WE'RE
ABOUT THIS AND HAPPY TO SEE
PUTTING FORWARD AND I'M PLEASED
THIS CONTENT AGENDA ITEM
ABOUT THIS AND HAPPY TO SEE
FURTHER.
THIS CONTENT AGENDA ITEM
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN THANK
FURTHER.
YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN THANK
I WANTED TO DRAW JUST ATTENTION
YOU.
TO A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT I AM
I WANTED TO DRAW JUST ATTENTION
EXCITED ABOUT.
TO A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT I AM
ONE IS A CONTRACT FOR THE 7TH
EXCITED ABOUT.
AND GREENVIEW IMPROVEMENTS
ONE IS A CONTRACT FOR THE 7TH
PROJECT.
AND GREENVIEW IMPROVEMENTS
THIS HAS BEEN A REALLY LONG
PROJECT.
TIME COMING AND I KNOW THAT
THIS HAS BEEN A REALLY LONG
THERE WERE A LOT OF CYCLES
TIME COMING AND I KNOW THAT
OF COMMUNITY INPUT TO MAKE THIS
THERE WERE A LOT OF CYCLES
PROJECT BETTER.
OF COMMUNITY INPUT TO MAKE THIS
IT'S NOT ONLY A WATER MAIN
PROJECT BETTER.
REPLACEMENT STORMWATER
IT'S NOT ONLY A WATER MAIN
DETENTION AND ROAD RESURFACING
REPLACEMENT STORMWATER
BUT BOTH OF THESE STREETS ARE
DETENTION AND ROAD RESURFACING
ALSO DESIGNATED AS ALL AGES,
BUT BOTH OF THESE STREETS ARE
ALL ABILITIES, NETWORK STREETS
ALSO DESIGNATED AS ALL AGES,
AND AS THEY EXIST RIGHT NOW
ALL ABILITIES, NETWORK STREETS
THEY'RE VERY WIDE AND RESIDENTS
AND AS THEY EXIST RIGHT NOW
HAVE LONG COMPLAINED ABOUT
THEY'RE VERY WIDE AND RESIDENTS
SPEEDING SO THEY ARE PLANNING
HAVE LONG COMPLAINED ABOUT
TO NARROW THE ROADS, MAKE SOME
SPEEDING SO THEY ARE PLANNING
OF THE SIDEWALKS MUCH WIDER AND
TO NARROW THE ROADS, MAKE SOME
ALSO ADD BUMP OUTS.
OF THE SIDEWALKS MUCH WIDER AND
THE OTHER THING I WANTED TO
ALSO ADD BUMP OUTS.
DRAW ATTENTION TO WAS SOMETHING
THE OTHER THING I WANTED TO
THAT I THINK WAS BROUGHT UP IN
DRAW ATTENTION TO WAS SOMETHING
THE PUBLIC COMMENT NEW SIDEWALK
THAT I THINK WAS BROUGHT UP IN
INSTALLATION AND A WORD FOR ON
THE PUBLIC COMMENT NEW SIDEWALK
PAGE AVENUE FROM ECHE TO HARP'S
INSTALLATION AND A WORD FOR ON
THIS IS A STREET WITHOUT
PAGE AVENUE FROM ECHE TO HARP'S
SIDEWALKS.
THIS IS A STREET WITHOUT
I KNOW THAT THIS HAS BEEN A
SIDEWALKS.
SOURCE OF FRUSTRATION FOR A LOT
I KNOW THAT THIS HAS BEEN A
OF PEOPLE THAT LIVE IN THAT
SOURCE OF FRUSTRATION FOR A LOT
AREA.
OF PEOPLE THAT LIVE IN THAT
THERE ARE PETITION SIGNATURES
AREA.
COLLECTED A LOT OF WORK DONE TO
THERE ARE PETITION SIGNATURES
MAKE THIS HAPPEN.
COLLECTED A LOT OF WORK DONE TO
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK MY
MAKE THIS HAPPEN.
COLLEAGUE COUNCILMAN BRYER
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK MY
BECAUSE I KNOW YOU HAD A BIG
COLLEAGUE COUNCILMAN BRYER
ROLE IN THAT.
BECAUSE I KNOW YOU HAD A BIG
SO HAPPY TO SEE THESE TWO
ROLE IN THAT.
THINGS MOVE FORWARD.
SO HAPPY TO SEE THESE TWO
THANKS.
THINGS MOVE FORWARD.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
THANKS.
I'D LIKE TO MAKE A FEW QUICK
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
COMMENTS ON C8 AND S.A.M. SEVEN
I'D LIKE TO MAKE A FEW QUICK
ON STATE OF NOTE TO WARD TWO
COMMENTS ON C8 AND S.A.M. SEVEN
I'M HAPPY TO SEE RIGHT AWAY
ON STATE OF NOTE TO WARD TWO
MOWING AND BRUSH CLEARING ALONG
I'M HAPPY TO SEE RIGHT AWAY
THE ROAD AND ALONG YOUR WAY.
MOWING AND BRUSH CLEARING ALONG
THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR WALKERS
THE ROAD AND ALONG YOUR WAY.
AND BIKERS AND DRIVERS WHO
THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR WALKERS
TRAVERSE THIS AREA.
AND BIKERS AND DRIVERS WHO
IN ADDITION ON C11 IT'S GOOD TO
TRAVERSE THIS AREA.
SEE RESURFACE THE WORK OF THE
IN ADDITION ON C11 IT'S GOOD TO
SHARED USE ASPHALT PATH ALONG
SEE RESURFACE THE WORK OF THE
YOUR WAY AND ERHART ROAD THAT
SHARED USE ASPHALT PATH ALONG
PATH HAS DETERIORATED
YOUR WAY AND ERHART ROAD THAT
SIGNIFICANTLY AND THIS HAS BEEN
PATH HAS DETERIORATED
A FREQUENT TASK FOR RESIDENTS
SIGNIFICANTLY AND THIS HAS BEEN
IN THE KINGS SCHOOL
A FREQUENT TASK FOR RESIDENTS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IN THE KINGS SCHOOL
I ENCOURAGE RESIDENTS TO SEE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
FURTHER STREET CONSTRUCTION
I ENCOURAGE RESIDENTS TO SEE
PLANS AT A2 GUVS AGATU STREET.
FURTHER STREET CONSTRUCTION
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
PLANS AT A2 GUVS AGATU STREET.
OF THE CONSENT OF DENHA ALL
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
THOSE IN FAVOR POSTS THE
OF THE CONSENT OF DENHA ALL
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
THOSE IN FAVOR POSTS THE
EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
ALL VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
ALL VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
REQUIREMENT FOR C FOR C A NINE
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
C ELEVEN C A TWELVE AND C A
REQUIREMENT FOR C FOR C A NINE
THIRTEEN.
C ELEVEN C A TWELVE AND C A
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC HEARINGS.
THIRTEEN.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC HEARINGS.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO CITY
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
COUNCIL AND TO THE COMMUNITY
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO CITY
ABOUT A SPECIFIC SUBJECT
COUNCIL AND TO THE COMMUNITY
MATTER, THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
ABOUT A SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO
MATTER, THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
SPEAK TO PUBLIC HEARING YOU
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO
NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
SPEAK TO PUBLIC HEARING YOU
ADVANCE BUT YOUR COMMENTS MUST
NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
RELATE TO THE TOPIC OF THE
ADVANCE BUT YOUR COMMENTS MUST
HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
RELATE TO THE TOPIC OF THE
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
MINUTES TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME
MINUTES TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOCK OUR CLERK WILL ALERT
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME
SPEAKERS WHEN THIRTY SECONDS
CLOCK OUR CLERK WILL ALERT
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
SPEAKERS WHEN THIRTY SECONDS
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDING
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDING
OUR PUBLIC HEARING TODAY IS
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
OUR PUBLIC HEARING TODAY IS
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
FORTY TO OPEN SPACE AND
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
PARKLAND PRESERVATION OF TITLE
FORTY TO OPEN SPACE AND
THREE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
PARKLAND PRESERVATION OF TITLE
OF ANN ARBOR.
THREE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
OF ANN ARBOR.
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK OF THIS
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THE
PUBLIC HEARING
MAYOR PRO TEM?
I SEE NO ONE WITH THEIR HAND
RAISED SEEING NO ONE THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE YOU THE WORK
SESSION MINUTES OF MARCH 11TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND THE
REGULAR SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF MARCH 18TH TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MISS ALL IN FAVOR OPPOSE THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED NOW COME
TO ORDINANCES ON SECOND READING
B ONE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FORTY TO OPEN SPACE IN
PARKLAND PRESERVATION OF TITLE
THREE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER AKMAN SECOND ABOUT
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IS THERE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER?
I DON'T HAVE A TON TO ADD FROM
LAST TIME BUT I DID WANT TO
ONCE AGAIN EXTEND MY
APPRECIATION TO STAFF WHO
ANSWERED A LOT OF QUESTIONS
SURROUNDING THIS FOR THE FIRST
TWO READINGS AND THEY JUST DID
A LOT OF WORK TO CLARIFY THINGS
AND TIGHTEN THINGS UP AND I
APPRECIATE THAT.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I JUST WANT TO ECHO
THAT I KNOW THAT THIS HAS BEEN
A LONG PROCESS FOR BOTH STAFF
AND FOR MEMBERS OF THE
GREENBELT AND PARKS COMMISSIONS
AND I JUST WANT TO THANK THEM
FOR THEIR CONTINUED WORK ON ALL
OF THIS AND FOR THEIR THEIR
THOUGHTFUL AMENDMENTS TO THIS
PROCESS AS THEY HEARD FEEDBACK
FROM MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY
AND MEMBERS OF THIS COUNCIL AND
AND LOOK FORWARD TO APPROVING
THIS TONIGHT.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR AND HE OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED C ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE ZONING
MAP BEING A PART OF SECTION
FIVE THAT TEND TO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
REZONING OF ONE POINT ZERO SIX
ACRES FROM OUR FORESE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT TO PUDI PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH
ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA IS THEIR DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DE I WANT TO
AMEND IT.
I COUNCIL MEMBER WANT TO AMEND
IT.
I'VE NEVER DONE THIS BEFORE THE
AMENDMENT THING YOU SHOULD HAVE
LANGUAGE I SEND IT TO YOU.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE CLERK NEEDS
TO.
MR. GEPHARDT, YOU HAVE AN EMAIL
FROM ME EARLIER
THIS.
YEAH THANK YOU.
I'LL MAKE SURE THIS IS IN FRONT
OF MY THANK YOU
IS WOULD YOU
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION EAU DE OK
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
DO THEY NEED THE TEXT.
OK OK UM DO I NEED TO READ THE
TEXT.
UM IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL TO READ
OK SO I MOVE FIVE AMENDMENTS TO
THE ORDINANCE AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS UM AND A RATHER
WELL YEAH.
SO AMENDMENT ONE IS TO REPLACE
COUNCIL MEMBER SORRY JUST TO I
THINK WE SHOULD TAKE THESE AS
SEPARATE AMENDMENTS SO OH YEAH.
SO ONE AT A TIME AND THEN WE'LL
VOTE ON THEM OK THANK YOU.
UM SO THE FIRST AMENDMENT IS TO
REPLACE SECTION FOUR YOU
DEREGULATION'S LETTER E
SUSTAINABILITY POINT ONE LEAD
WITH LEED GOLD BUILDINGS SHALL
ACHIEVE THE GOLD LEVEL OF THE
U.S. GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL
LEADERSHIP IN ENERGY
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATION FOR NEW
CONSTRUCTION VERSION 4.0 OR
NEWER PROOF OF REGISTRATION IS
REQUIRED AT THE TIME
OF BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE AND
DOCUMENTATION OF CERTIFICATION
SHALL BE PROVIDED WITHIN TWO
YEARS OF ISSUANCE OF THE FINAL
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY IF THE
PROJECT FAILS TO PROVIDE
WRITTEN CERTIFICATION
OF COMPLIANCE WITHIN TWO YEARS
OF ISSUANCE OF THE FINAL
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
PENALTY AND OR ENFORCEMENT
PROVISIONS SPECIFIED IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT SHALL
APPLY A SECOND COUNCIL MEMBER
STATE DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT.
YEAH I MEAN UH THE PETITIONER
NEEDS VERSION 4.0 AND WE
SPECIFIED OR NEWAR BECAUSE
THESE THINGS GET UPDATED
BECAUSE THE CURRENT FOUR POINT
ONE ISN'T SET UP FOR THEIR
BUILDING TYPOLOGY AND STAFF
WANTS TO MAKE IT CLEAR THAT
LEED CERTIFICATION OFTEN
REQUIRES LONGITUDINAL STUDIES
AND SO IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT
CAN BE GIVEN AT THE TIME EVEN
THAT THE BUILDING IS OCCUPIED
AND YOU KNOW THE INITIAL
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPATION IS
ISSUED AND SO WE NEED THEM TO
DO THE LONGITUDINAL STUDIES AND
SHOW THAT THEY HAVE INDEED
ACHIEVED LEED CERTIFICATION AND
WE NEED A WAY TO ENFORCE IF
THEY FAIL TO DO SO.
AND SO THAT'S WHAT THIS
AMENDMENT PROVIDES.
THANK YOU.
IS THIS AMENDMENT FRIENDLY TO
THE IT IS FRIENDLY COUNCIL?
I'M VERY HAPPY FOR OK SO I GO
INTO THE NEXT MOMENT.
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE NEXT AMENDMENT UM IS TO
STRIKE SECTION FOUR U.D.
REGULATIONS G ARCHITECTURAL
DESIGN AND MATERIALS UH NUMBER
TWO FROM THE ORDINANCE OR
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN MATERIALS
TO THAT SAYS MATERIALS FROM THE
ORDINANCE AND THE ORDINANCE HAD
SPECIFY THAT IS THERE A SECOND
TIME SO SORRY COUNTER-TERRORISM
.
THANK YOU.
I'M REALLY SORRY.
UM SO THE ORDINANCE HAD
SPECIFIED THAT THE PROJECT
SHOULD FOLLOW THE DOWNTOWN
DESIGN AND OR DOWNTOWN
MATERIALS AND THAT SHOULD NEVER
HAVE BEEN IN THERE BECAUSE THIS
PROJECT HAS ALWAYS ENVISIONED
THAT IT WOULD USE AN INSULATION
PRODUCT CALLED EAVIS AS PART
OF ITS BUILDING MATERIALS IN
ORDER TO ACHIEVE THE HIGHEST
EFFICIENCY POSSIBLE.
COUNCILMAN RASSAM, JUST A POINT
ON THE SURFACE CLADDING IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT THE REASON
THAT WAS IS SORT FORBIDDEN IN
THE DOWNTOWN DESIGN STANDARDS
IS BECAUSE I GUESS IN THE OLD
DAYS IT GAVE THE IN AN OLDER
VERSION OF THE MATERIAL GAVE
SORT OF FOR LACK OF A BETTER
WORD A WEST COAST STYLING TO IT
AND NOW WITH ADVANCES IN THE
MATERIAL IT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
CONVEY ANY SORT
OF ARCHITECTURAL STYLE.
SO THIS THIS INSULATION HAS
COME A LONG WAY AND IT'S
NECESSARY TO ACHIEVE THE
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS HERE IS
THIS AMENDMENT FRIENDLY TO BODY
?
I CAN'T REMEMBER.
I BELIEVE IT'S FRIENDLY.
I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY ON
THIS.
YES, I UNDERSTAND THE RATIONALE
BEHIND INCLUDING IT BUT I'M
CURIOUS WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS
COULD BE FROM IT.
IT'S JUST THE MATERIALS
COMPONENT, NOT THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES OTHERWISE JUST THE
MATERIALS I'M SORRY I DON'T
THINK I WAS CLEAR.
OK, VERY GOOD THANKS.
NOW IS THIS FRIENDLY TO THE
BACK?
IT IS COUNCIL MEMBER USE OF THE
FINE THANK YOU.
UM AMENDMENT THREE UM WOULD
MODIFY SECTION FOUR YOU
DEREGULATION'S B AREA PLIGHTED
HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT NUMBER TWO
WE WOULD STRIKE FROM THE SECOND
SENTENCE OF THAT SECTION
SEVENTEEN STORIES AND SO THAT
IT READS THE MAXIMUM PERMITTED
PERMITTED A BUILDING HEIGHT
SHALL BE TWO HUNDRED AND THIRTY
FEET SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON THIRD DISCUSSION
IT'S THAT AMENDMENT FRIENDLY TO
THE BODY FAMILY COUNCIL MEMBER
UH THE OOPS OH YEAH THE FOURTH
AMENDMENT IS ADDED TO SECTION
FOUR YOU DEREGULATION'S E
SUSTAINABILITY A NEW GEOTHERMAL
REQUIREMENT AS FOLLOWS
GEOTHERMAL TECHNOLOGIES.
THE PROJECT WILL INTEGRATE
GROUND SOURCE HEAT EXCHANGE
TECHNOLOGY INTO THE BUILDING'S
HVAC SYSTEM TO FACILITATE EIGHT
PERCENT OR 640 TO ABH OF THE
BUILDING'S TOTAL AND B.H. LOAD
.
ADDITIONALLY, THE PUMPS FOR
THIS HEAT EXCHANGE SYSTEM WILL
BE CONNECTED TO THE BACKUP
GENERATORS TO OFFER THESE AREAS
OF THE BUILDING AS EMERGENCY
TENANT WARMING SPACES DURING
POUTRE POWER OUTAGES.
IS THERE A SECOND COUNCIL
MEMBER?
NO FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER ECKMANN I'M JUST HOPING
YOU CAN EXPLAIN THIS CHANGE A
LITTLE BIT MORE.
YES.
SO ORIGINALLY THE BUILDING
DIDN'T HAVE A GEOTHERMAL
ELEMENT AND ESSENTIALLY WHAT
THEY ARE OFFERING IS A USE
OF GEOTHERMAL TECHNOLOGIES TO
HEAT COMMON AREAS OF THE
BUILDING THAT WOULD BE ABLE TO
PROVIDE A SHELTER IN PLACE AREA
IN THE CASE OF A POWER OUTAGE
AND THEY'RE PROPOSING TO HEAT
THOSE AREAS OR COOL THEM WITH
GEOTHERMAL TECHNOLOGY AND
SHOULD THE GEOTHERMAL
TECHNOLOGY NOT BE ADEQUATE OR
FAIL, THIS WOULD BE CONNECTED
TO THE BACKUP GAS GENERATOR
THAT THE BUILDING WILL HAVE.
SO THERE WOULD ALWAYS BE THE
ABILITY TO SHELTER IN PLACE AS
THIS AMENDMENT FROM LITTLE
VALLEY
IT IS FRIENDLY COUNCIL
NO DESH AND THEN AMENDMENT FIVE
IS IN THE SECTION OF THE UM
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS THAT
TALKS ABOUT PUBLIC ART AND WE
WILL CHANGE UM THE LITTLE POINT
I THE VALUE OF THE ART PROJECT
BEING AT LEAST FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND STRIKE THE REST
OF THE SENTENCE THE THE
ORIGINAL PROPOSAL HAD BEEN
BASED ON A PERCENTAGE OF THE
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST AND WE
THE DEVELOPER ASKED TO REDUCE
THAT TO FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
SO THEREFORE IT IS THERE A
SECOND COUNCIL MEMBER IS THERE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNER I JUST WANTED TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST FOR
REACHING OUT THROUGH MY WORK AT
THE ART CENTER.
I HAVE A LOT OF EXPERIENCE
WORKING WITH ART AND PUBLIC
PROJECTS AND WHAT BUDGETS FOR
THOSE MIGHT LOOK LIKE AND IT
WAS A REALLY SUBSTANTIVE
CONVERSATION THAT LED TO THIS
AMENDMENT AMENDMENTS I
APPRECIATE THANK YOU.
IS THIS AMENDMENT FRIENDLY TO
THE COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN?
I'M HOPING THAT SOMEONE CAN
SPEAK MORE TO AND IT SOUNDS
LIKE SOMEONE MAYBE CAN SPEAK
MORE TO THIS EFFICIENCY OF THIS
AMOUNT TO HAVE PERHAPS
SOMETHING OF VALUE IN TERMS
OF PUBLIC ART.
I JUST DON'T KNOW.
SO IF STAFF OR SOMEBODY ELSE
CAN RESPOND TO THAT, I'D
APPRECIATE IT.
I'M NOT STAFF.
CAN I TAKE THAT ON?
SURE.
SO ON NO DECENT I TALKED ABOUT
WAS YOU KNOW, FOR PROJECTS SUCH
AS A LARGE MURAL DOWNTOWN, YOU
KNOW, A BUDGET FOR THAT CAN BE
,YOU KNOW, ANYWHERE BETWEEN
TWENTY FIVE AND ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS BUT THERE IS
DEFINITELY A WAY TO ADD PUBLIC
ART TO THIS TO THIS IN A WAY
THAT IS REALLY SUBSTANTIVE.
SO YOU KNOW WHEN THE ART CENTER
RIGHT NOW IS DOING PLANTER
BOXES DOWNTOWN, YOU KNOW THOSE
ARE LESS THAN A THOUSAND
DOLLARS EACH.
SO I THINK THAT WHEN YOU LOOK
AT IT HOLISTICALLY AND SAY THIS
IS YOUR BUDGET VERSUS BEING
SUPER PRESCRIPTIVE AROUND
MEETING A DOLLAR AMOUNT, YOU
GET MORE CREATIVE MINDS TO
CONTRIBUTE TO IT AND TO SORT
OF FIGURE IT OUT.
WHAT I LIKE TO SEE THIS BUDGET
BE HIGHER OF COURSE.
OF COURSE I WOULD BECAUSE I DO
OBVIOUSLY GIVEN MY WORK VALUE
ART A LOT.
BUT I THINK IF IF WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT IT BEING A PUBLIC BENEFIT
BEING SOMETHING THAT BEAUTIFIES
THAT PART OF THE COMMUNITY AND
CREATES AN IMPACT THAT BUDGET
IS SUFFICIENT COUNCIL MEMBERS
ON IF I RECALL CORRECTLY OUR
PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION IS
UNFUNDED SO AND THE PUBLIC
ARTWORK THAT WE DO HAVE IN ON
IN OUR CAPITAL CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS REALLY
COMES OUT OF I BELIEVE THE
GENERAL FUND OR DONATIONS.
SO IT WOULDN'T BE UNHEARD OF TO
SEE THIS KIND OF FUNDING COME
ALONG TO IMPROVE OUR PUBLIC
SPACES.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF AMENDMENT FIVE OPPOSE
AMENDMENT FIVE SUPPORT UH, BACK
TO THE ORIGINAL MOTION COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH I BELIEVE YOU STILL
HAVE THE FLOOR.
OK, HOW MUCH TIME DO WE STARTED
TO REALIZE THAT WE'RE KIND
OF TOWARDS THE AMENDMENT,
CORRECT?
RIGHT.
SO I GET TO START.
ALL RIGHT.
SO APPROVAL OF THIS ORDINANCE
WILL RESULT IN SIX LOTS AT THE
SOUTHEAST OR CORNER OF WILLARD
STREET AND CHURCH STREET FROM
OUR FORESE TO PUDI AND ADOPT
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS TO
ALLOW A HIGH RISE MULTIPLE
FAMILY BUILDING RANGING FROM 12
TO 17 STOREYS WITH TWENTY TO A
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY THREE
APARTMENTS.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDED DENIAL AS DID THE
PLANNING STAFF.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION VOTE
WAS TWO TO FIVE.
THE VOTE WAS ACTUALLY CLOSER
THAN IT LOOKS ON PAPER BECAUSE
PEOPLE REALLY STRUGGLED OVER
THIS PLANNING STAFF WHEN THEY
VOTED PLANNING STAFF.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
STATED THAT THIS PROJECT IS NOT
OUT OF CHARACTER.
IT'S LOCATED ONE BLOCK FROM
CAMPUS THAT AS WE HEARD EARLIER
IS KITTY CORNER FROM NINETEEN
STOREY UNIVERSITY TOWERS.
STAFF DID NOT SAY THAT THE
PROJECT HAD NO BENEFITS.
THEY RECOGNIZED MANY BENEFITS.
THEY RECOMMENDED DENIAL FOR TWO
REASONS ONE BECAUSE THEY
BELIEVE THE PROJECT'S BENEFITS
COULD BE ACHIEVED THROUGH OTHER
AVAILABLE ZONING DISTRICTS AND
TWO THEY BELIEVED THE DEVELOPER
NEEDED TO OFFER ADDITIONAL
BENEFITS TO WARRANT THE
ADDITIONAL DENSITY.
IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE TO
PRAISE OUR PLANNING STAFF TOO
HIGHLY FOR THEIR EXPERTIZE,
THEIR COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY
VALUES, THEIR PRECISION AND
THEIR PATIENTS.
I VALUE THE THOUGHTFUL,
DETAILED MEMO THAT THEY
PROVIDED ON THIS PROJECT AND I
UNDERSTAND WHY THEY REACHED THE
CONCLUSION THAT THEY DID BASED
ON WHAT THEY TOOK INTO
CONSIDERATION AT THIS TABLE.
IT IS OUR JOB TO EXERCISE
JUDGMENT ABOUT THE
CONSIDERATIONS WE BRING TO BEAR
IN EVALUATING A PROJECT.
THE PROPOSED PROJECT ACHIEVES A
VALUED BENEFIT THAT IS
RECOGNIZED IN THE CITY'S PUDI
ORDINANCE.
IT ACHIEVES ECONOMY AND
EFFICIENCY IN USE OF LAND BY
CREATING TWO HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY THREE RESIDENTIAL UNITS
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE
OF CAMPUS PLANNING STAFF AND
PLANNING COMMISSION BOTH
RECOGNIZED THIS BENEFIT AND IT
IS SOMETHING THAT MANY IN IN
OUR EARLY URGENTLY WANT BECAUSE
ECONOMY AND EFFICIENCY AND USE
OF LAND IS THE ONLY WAY TO MEET
OUR SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY OR AFFORDABILITY
GOALS.
THERE JUST ISN'T ANYWHERE TO GO
BUT UP IN THIS CITY SO LET'S
THINK ABOUT THE STAFF
EVALUATION IN THIS CONTEXT.
IF THE DENSITY OF THE
UNDERLINING LYING ZONING IS TEN
DWELLING UNITS A. THEN IT IS
UNDENIABLE THAT OTHER ZONING
CATEGORIES EXIST BY WHICH A
PROJECT COULD ACHIEVE GREATER
ECONOMY AND EFFICIENCY OF LAND
USE TENANT DWELLING UNITS PER
ACRE IS SIMPLY NOT VERY
EFFICIENT SO I WANT TO FOCUS
LESS ON THE BENEFITS AND FORM
OF THE PD I WANT TO STATE AT
THE OUTSET THE PROJECT CAME
INITIALLY AS A NINETEEN STOREY
HIGH RISE IN RESPONSE TO
NEIGHBORHOOD CONCERNS AND STAFF
ADVICE, THE BUILDING WAS
REDESIGNED TO DROP TWO STORIES
FROM THE NORTH MAKING IT A 17
STORY BUILDING AT THE NORTH END
AND THEN STEP DOWN TO TWELVE
STORIES AT THE SOUTH END.
THIS RESTRUCTURING WAS DONE TO
REDUCE TRADING ON TOWNSLEY
CENTER.
THIS RESULTED IN A LOSS
OF SEVENTY SEVEN UNITS WHICH
WAS A 22 PERCENT REDUCTION
OF THE PROJECTS ORIGINALLY
PROPOSED DENSITY.
THE PROJECT DOES NOT ACHIEVE
NET ZERO BUT IT WILL BE
PRIMARILY ELECTRIC BUILDING
NATURAL GAS USE IN THE DISTRICT
SHALL BE LIMITED TO A POWER
EMERGENCY BACKUP AND AUXILIARY
POWER HOT WATER GENERATION ONLY
DURING PERIODS WHEN DEMAND
CANNOT BE MET BY THE AVAILABLE
ELECTRIC SUPPLY.
COUNTERMAN FINE I CAN COME BACK
LATER.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBERS
GIVEN THAT THE
MOST EDUCATED CITY IN AMERICA I
THOUGHT I'D SHARE SOME JOURNAL
ARTICLES CITYWIDE EFFECTS
OF NEW HOUSING SUPPLY EVIDENCE
FOR MOVING CHAINS IN THE
JOURNAL OF URBAN ECONOMICS
JANUARY 23 SUPPLY SHOCK VS.
DEMAND SHOCK THE LOCAL EFFECTS
OF NEW HOUSING IN LOW INCOME
AREAS POLICY BRIEF PRESENTED AT
THE WTC UPJOHN INSTITUTE FOR
EMPLOYMENT RESEARCH ON FEDERAL
RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA
MARCH 23.
LOCAL EFFECTS OF LARGE NEW
APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN LOW
INCOME AREAS A POLICY BRIEF
RESEARCH IN THE REVIEW
OF ECONOMICS AND STATISTICS
2023 BILL BABY BUILD HOUSING
SUBMARKETS AND EFFECTS OF NEW
CONSTRUCTION ON EXISTING RENTS
2020 PRESENTED AT URBAN AFFAIRS
ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE.
DO NEW HOUSING UNITS IN YOUR
BACKYARD RAISE YOUR RENTS
JOURNAL OF ECONOMIC GEOGRAPHY
DECEMBER 22 THE ECONOMIC
IMPLICATIONS OF HOUSING SUPPLY
JOURNALS ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVES
AND THEN FINALLY I THINK A
REALLY GOOD PIECE IS THE
RESEARCH ROUND THE EFFECT
OF MARKET RATE DEVELOPMENT ON
NEIGHBORHOOD RENTS FROM
FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY ONE UCLA
LEWIS CENTER FOR REGIONAL
POLICY STUDIES.
THE TAKEAWAY IS I'LL QUOTE TO
BE CLEAR THIS DEBATE IS NOT
ABOUT WHETHER NEW HOUSING CAN
REDUCE HOUSING PRICES OVERALL
AT THIS POINT THAT IDEA ISN'T
REALLY IN DOUBT.
THERE'S GOOD REASON TO BELIEVE
THAT IN REGIONS WITH HIGH
HOUSING DEMAND BUILDING MORE
HOUSING AND HELP KEEP THE
PRICES OF EXISTING HOUSING DOWN
CITING NUMEROUS INDIVIDUAL
STUDIES AND REVIEWS OF DOZENS
MORE, THEY CONCLUDE THAT THE
PREPONDERANCE OF THE EVIDENCE
SHOWS THAT RESTRICTING SUPPLY
INCREASES HOUSING PRICES AND
ADDING SUPPLY WOULD HELP TO
MAKE HOUSING MORE AFFORDABLE.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
I THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE YOU SAVING SOME
OF THOSE STUDIES.
I'M GOING TO FOLLOW SOMETHING
THE SAME TREND.
I DO WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
ACKNOWLEDGE I APPRECIATE FOLKS
THAT ARE HERE SPEAKING BOTH IN
IN FAVOR AND IN OPPOSITION TO
THIS DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK I WANTED TO ADDRESS
SOME OF THE CRITICISMS AND I
THINK IT'S IT'S ITS RIGHT TO
COME AND SAY WHY WOULD WE WHY
WOULD WE BE IN SUPPORT
OF SOMETHING THAT OUR PLANNING
STAFF AND PLANNING COMMISSION
HAD VOICED OPPOSITION TO AND
FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF STAFF I
THINK THEY ABSOLUTELY MADE THE
RIGHT DECISION ON THIS ONE.
THEY ARE LOOKING AT YOU KNOW
WHAT THE UNDERLYING ZONING IS
HERE.
BUT THAT IS AS I MENTIONED, NOT
NECESSARILY WE ARE WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT THIS FROM A SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE.
STAFF DID NOTE WITHIN THE
CONCEPT WITHIN THEIR STAFF
REPORT THAT THEY THEY BELIEVE
THAT REZONING TO DETA WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE.
AND SO WHEN I'M EVALUATING
WHETHER OR NOT THIS PD WARRANTS
THE COMMUNITY BENEFITS, MEET
ARE IN LINE WITH THE INCREASED
DENSITY THAT'S BEING REQUESTED
.
I PERSONALLY AM NOT LOOKING AT
IT FROM THE OUR FORCE
PERSPECTIVE.
I'M LOOKING TO FROM D TO IT'S
AN IMPERFECT IMPERFECT
,
IMPERFECT SCIENCE.
THERE IS NO HOW MUCH BENEFIT
CAN WE GET?
WHERE IS THAT LEVEL?
AND THAT WAS A LONG DISCUSSION
THAT THAT PLANNING COMMISSION
HAD AS WELL.
BUT FROM THE LENS THAT I'M
LOOKING AT IT WE KNOW THAT WE
NEED MORE HOUSING.
THAT ALONE CANNOT FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE BE THE REASON THAT
WE APPROVE IT BUT WE DO NEED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE IT AND THIS IS NOT
JUST SOMETHING THAT THAT WE'RE
SAYING THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
THE THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION
HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR ABOUT
DEMONSTRATING THAT WE HAVE I
THINK ONE POINT FIVE MILLION
FOR TOO LITTLE HOUSING UNITS ON
THE UNITED STATES RIGHT NOW
IT'S A NATIONAL SHORTAGE.
ANIBA IS NOT ALONE.
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG SPOKE TO
SORT OF THE IMPACT OF ADDING
ADDITIONAL HOUSING SUPPLY ON
OUR OWN LOCAL HOUSING CRISIS
AND WE NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT.
BUT THERE ARE ADDITIONAL
BENEFITS TO THIS TO THIS PD.
IT IS GOING TO BE LEED GOLD
STANDARDS.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT IS NOT
REQUIRED BY OUR BY OUR CODE AND
IT'S A LOT OF LOT OF NEW UNITS
COMING IN AT A MUCH MORE
SUSTAINABLE LEVEL AND WE COULD
GET THE PAYMENT IN LIEU OF IS
IN IS GREATER THAN 15 PERCENT
THAT'S REQUIRED BY OUR
ORDINANCE 17 PERCENT AND AS
FOLKS NOTED IN PUBLIC COMMENT
THAT AMOUNTS TO SEVEN MILLION
DOLLARS WHICH IS EQUATES TO
WHAT WE GET IN ONE YEAR.
THERE IS PUBLIC ART THAT'S
COMING IN.
I THINK THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF DISCUSSION ABOUT THE DESIGN
OF OUR LOCAL BUILDINGS AND
DOWNTOWN AND THIS IS A
DEVELOPER THAT HAS COME IN AND
SAID WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE PUT IN SOMETHING THAT THAT
HAS THAT HAS THAT BENEFIT.
IT'S GOING TO CONTRIBUTE 250
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO PUBLIC
RESTROOMS IN THE DOWNTOWN.
THAT'S HUGE AS WELL THAT THAT'S
A SHORTAGE THAT THAT WE'VE
IDENTIFIED AND THERE'S ALSO A
VERY SUBSTANTIAL CONTRIBUTION
TO THE PARKS DEPARTMENT AS
WELL.
THAT'S THAT WE OFTEN FIND WITH
THE DEVELOPMENTS.
BUT NEVERTHELESS THAT IS THAT
IS A PUBLIC BENEFIT AS WELL.
AND SO I'M LOOKING AT THE LENS
THROUGH WHICH I AM I MIGHT
SPEAK TO IT MORE BUT THIS DOES
PROVIDE THE COMMUNITY BENEFIT
THAT WE NEED.
COUNCILMAN BRECKMAN, THANK YOU.
I GUESS I WANTED TO SPEAK TO
SOME OF THE SEVERAL OF MY
COLLEAGUES HAVE ALREADY TALKED
ABOUT HOUSING CRISIS AND OUR
NEED TO RESPOND TO IT AND I
HEARD SEVERAL OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENTERS SPEAK TO THE FACT
THAT YOU SHOULD BE HOUSING
THESE PEOPLE AND THAT THIS
WON'T ADDRESS THE HOUSING
CRISIS AT ALL.
AND I GUESS I FIND IT SHOCKING
GIVEN THE HEADLINES I'VE BEEN
READING.
SO JUST SOME RECENT ONES YOU
HAVE STRUGGLES TO MEET
STUDENTS, RISING DEMAND FOR
HOUSING.
YOU HAVE STUDENTS WHO LIVE IN
LOUNGES DUE TO HOUSING SHORTAGE
.
STUDENTS AREN'T GUARANTEED
HOUSING AFTER THEIR FRESHMAN
YEAR ON CAMPUS.
THEY HAVE RECORD BREAKING
ENROLLMENT NUMBERS AND MANY
STUDENTS ARE LEFT TO SECURE
ACCOMMODATIONS ON THEIR OWN.
THE DIRECTOR OF HOUSING AT U
OF M SAID DEMAND FOR STUDENT
HOUSING HAS CONTINUED TO EXCEED
SUPPLY SO HOUSING FOR THE PAST
FEW YEARS DEMAND HAS
CONSISTENTLY OUTPACED THE
NUMBER OF ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR
THE RETURNING STUDENTS AND THIS
YEAR WAS NO EXCEPTION.
THEY KEEP ADMITTING MORE
STUDENTS.
YOU SEE PEOPLE COMMENTING ON
REDDIT I'M SO SICK OF THE
HOUSING CRISIS HERE.
I'M SICK OF BEING FORCED TO PAY
OBSCENE AMOUNTS OF MONEY FOR
OLD HOUSING WITH MOLD AND OTHER
HOUSE HEALTH HAZARDS.
SO I THINK THIS BODY IS LEFT TO
RESPOND TO THE FACT THAT YOU
THEM STUDENT BODY IS GROWING
AND WE HAVE TO RESPOND TO THAT.
THIS IS A HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
THAT IS RIGHT THERE WALKING
DISTANCE TO WHERE THEY'RE GOING
TO CLASS, WALKING DISTANCE TO A
BUS IF THEY'VE GOT CLASSES
NORTH CAMPUS, YOU KNOW, A
THOUSAND BEDS I DON'T
UNDERSTAND HOW WE CAN LOOK AT
THIS PICTURE AND NOT SAY THAT
ONE OF THEM IS NOT MEETING THE
SUPPLY.
SO TO PRETEND THAT WE CAN RELY
ON THEM TO DO SO IS NOT
HAPPENING AND TO DO NOTHING I
THINK IS REALLY IRRESPONSIBLE
BECAUSE IT'S LEADING TO THINGS
LIKE A SIX THOUSAND DOLLAR
WAITING LIST FEE FOR HOUSING
HERE FOR STUDENT HOUSING.
SO YOU KNOW, I'M DETERMINED TO
DO SOMETHING IN RESPONSE TO
THIS AND MAYBE, YOU KNOW, THE
CHOICES THAT WE HAVE ARE
IMPERFECT AND CERTAINLY
SYMPATHETIC TO CONSTRUCTION
DISTURBANCES THAT YOU'RE
HAVING.
AND IF PEOPLE ARE COMING BEFORE
THE TIMES THEY SHOULD THAT
SHOULD BE DEALT WITH THROUGH
NOISE ORDINANCE CERTAINLY.
BUT I PLAN TO VOTE YES TO MOVE
THIS FORWARD TO THE NEXT
READING.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN BRIAN.
THANK YOU.
I'LL BE BRIEF BUT I AM ALSO
GOING TO BE VOTING TONIGHT ON
THIS.
IT HAS BEEN STATED BY MY
COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN
.
I MEAN READING THOSE HEADLINES
IS REALLY JARRING.
THE NUMBERS ARE ACTUALLY OVER
THE PAST DOZEN YEARS OR SO U
OF M HAS ADDED THIRTEEN
THOUSAND STUDENTS AND ONLY ONE
THOUSAND BEDS ON CAMPUS.
IT FEELS LIKE THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF CONSTRUCTION OF STUDENT
HOUSING BUT THE ACTUAL NUMBER
IS ONLY ABOUT FIVE THOUSAND
BEDS.
SO WE ARE CURRENTLY ABOUT 6000
BEDS SHORT JUST FOR STUDENTS
THAT DOESN'T EVEN GET INTO ALL
THE OTHER HOUSING NEEDS THAT WE
HAVE FROM EMPLOYEES.
THE WORKERS THAT HAVE BEEN
ADDED TO THE CITY OVER THE
YEARS AND I'LL GET MORE INTO
THAT LATER WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
THE PACKAGE OF RESOLUTIONS THAT
ARE COMING TO ADDRESS THIS
ISSUE.
BUT IT WOULD BE REALLY
DIFFICULT TO VOTE NO ON THIS
AND THEN A MINUTE YOU KNOW, TO
TWO AGENDA ITEMS LATER DECLARE
THAT WE HAVE A HOUSING CRISIS
AND THAT HOUSING SUPPLY AND IN
BUILDING NEW HOUSING IS OUR
NUMBER ONE GOAL.
WE NEED THIS NEW HOUSING AND I
LIKE TO REMIND PEOPLE THAT, YOU
KNOW, THE MORE OF THIS HOUSING
THAT'S BUILT AND IT IS IT WILL
BE USED EVEN THOUGH IT'S VERY
EXPENSIVE, IT WILL BE USED.
WE HAVE A RENTAL VACANCY RATE
THAT'S CLOSE TO ZERO RIGHT NOW
.
THE MORE WE CAN PROVIDE AND
ALLOW THE MARKET TO PROVIDE
THAT HOUSING THAT'S NEEDED, THE
LESS PRESSURE THERE WILL BE ON
OUR NEIGHBORHOODS TO CONVERT
MORE CURRENT SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES INTO HOUSING FOR
STUDENTS.
CAN WE PLEASE HAVE SOME WATER?
THANK YOU.
SO FOR ALL OF THOSE REASONS I
WILL BE VOTING YES.
THANK THANK YOU.
JUST LIKE TO REMIND MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC PLEASE DO NOT
INTERJECT DURING COUNCIL
COMMENTS.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER THIS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH COLLEAGUES
FOR ADDING TO THE LIST
OF REASONS OR A LIST
OF BENEFITS OF THIS PROJECT AND
FOR PROVIDING SO MUCH CONTEXT
FOR THE REASON WHY A PROJECT
LIKE THIS IS NEEDED AND WILL
CONTRIBUTE TO AFFORDABILITY
EVEN IF IT IS NOT IN ITSELF
AFFORDABLE FOR 60 PERCENT AM I
WHICH IS CERTAINLY NONE OF OUR
STUDENT HOUSING IS THERE.
I WANTED TO SAY THAT BUT JUST A
COUPLE OF OTHER THINGS OF THE
BENEFITS OF THIS PROJECT I
WANTED TO EMPHASIZE THAT
THERE'S LIMITED LIMITED
AUTOMOBILE PARKING WHICH IS
INDICATIVE OF A BUILDING THAT
HAS A HIGH WALKING SCORE WHICH
IS WE WANT PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
WALK TO WHERE THEY NEED TO GO.
IT ALSO HAS GENEROUS BIKE
PARKING.
THERE IS ONE PARKING SPACE PER
UNIT, TEN OUTDOOR SPACE FOR
VISITORS AND A MINIMUM OF TWO
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES SHALL
ACCOMMODATE CARGO BICYCLE AND A
MINIMUM OF TWENTY EIGHT WILL BE
CAPABLE OF RECHARGING ELECTRIC
BICYCLES.
AND THESE ARE OTHER
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS THAT
THE DEVELOPER BUILT INTO THIS
PROJECT IN ORDER TO MAKE IT
CLEAR THAT THEY ARE WORKING
VERY HARD TO BRING US A PROJECT
THAT ALIGNS WITH OUR GOALS AND
A PROJECT WHOSE BENEFITS
WARRANT THE DENSITY INCREASE
THAT THEY ARE ASKING FOR.
I THINK WE YEAH I THINK YEAH.
GREAT.
SO THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS ON.
I'D LIKE TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER AGMA FOR SPEAKING TO THE
EXPERIENCE OF STUDENTS.
YOUR STUDENTS ARE NOT STRANGERS
TO OUR COMMUNITY AS SOMEONE WHO
CAME FROM A FAMILY WHO CAN ONLY
AFFORD ONE YEAR OF LIVING IN
THE DORMS AND THEN COMMUTING
FOR THE REMAINDER MY TIME HERE
AT THE UNIVERSITY WHILE WORKING
AT PALIOS SERVING YOU USING
ITALIAN FOOD WHILE WORKING AT
EASTERN ACCENTS AND MAKING YOUR
BIBIMBAP AND YOUR ESPRESSOS
WHILE WORKING AT THE
UNDERGRADUATE LIBRARY AND
FINDING YOUR JOURNAL ARTICLES
STUDENTS ARE HERE TO DO WHAT
THEY CAN TO FINISH THEIR
EDUCATION AND SUPPORT THEIR
FAMILIES IN SOME WAY AND MAKE
DO.
BUT THIS HOUSING CRISIS, THE
SITUATION WHERE STUDENTS ARE
FORCED TO COMMUTE IT'S BEEN A
LONG TIME SINCE I'VE BEEN AN
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT THAT WAS
1995 TO 1998 AND TO THINK
INCOMING STUDENTS IN 2024 HAVE
TO HAVE THE SAME EXPERIENCE
BECAUSE THE CITY HASN'T CAUGHT
UP TO THIS DEMAND AND YET WE
ALL WHERE U OF GEAR WHERE
ALUMNI WERE PROUD OF THE SCHOOL
WHEN WE WIN A NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP AND YET WE'RE
SURPRISED THAT PEOPLE WANT TO
LIVE HERE, WORK HERE, GO TO
SCHOOL HERE, THAT PEOPLE WANT
TO SEND THEIR CHILDREN HERE.
THEY'RE HERE.
SO THANK YOU FOR RECOGNIZING
WHO THE STUDENTS ARE, THEIR
CHALLENGES AND HOW POTENTIALLY
IF WE DO OUR JOB REALLY WELL
AND NOT ONLY PROVIDING HOUSING
BUT FIGURE OUT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, THEY CAN BECOME
TAX PAYERS LIKE MYSELF OR YOUR
FUTURE COUNCIL MEMBER.
SO YOUR FUTURE NEIGHBORS ARE
ALSO CONTRIBUTING TOWARDS OUR
TAX BASE CONSIDERING THAT OUR
SCHOOLS ARE ARE FACING 25
MILLION DOLLARS SHORTFALL THAT
ANNUAL MONEY WHICH ABOUT THIRTY
PERCENT OF YOUR LOCAL TAXES
GOES TO OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS WILL
GO TOWARDS OUR FUTURE.
OUR CURRENT ONE RIGHT NOW.
SO THOSE STUDENTS ARE YOUR
NEIGHBORS, YOUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS, YOUR FELLOW TAX
MEMBERS, TAX PAYERS
.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
I SORT OF ADDRESSED EACH OF THE
SORT OF CRITIQUES THAT CAME UP
DURING PUBLIC COMMENT.
ONE OF THE OTHER COMMENTS THAT
WAS RAISED WAS SORT OF I THINK
THE QUOTE WAS WHY ARE WE
SELLING OUR CITY AND STUDENTS
TO DEVELOPERS?
AND I THINK IT'S IT'S I'VE
SPENT MY LIFE WORKING FOR
NON-PROFITS AND HAD A DIFFERENT
TRAJECTORY AND IT'S EASY TO
VILIFY DEVELOPERS AND THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAMS THAT COME IN.
BUT I WOULD WOULD LIKE FOLKS TO
CHALLENGE THEMSELVES TO THINK
ABOUT WHAT FUNDING MODEL COULD
YOU CONCOCT THAT WOULD ALLOW
ANYBODY TO BUILD A THOUSAND
UNITS OF OF OF HOUSING IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT WOULD NOT HAVE
LARGE INVESTMENTS AND
INVESTMENT TEAMS BEHIND THEM?
IT'S IT'S TO ME INCONCEIVABLE
THAT THAT'S PROBABLY GOING TO
HAPPEN.
IT'S THE REALITY OF BUILDING
HOUSING AND COMMUNITIES AND
BUILDING A LOT OF HOUSING.
WOULD I LIKE TO SEE PERHAPS A
DIFFERENT SCENARIO IN A MAGICAL
WORLD?
SURE.
BUT I WE HAVE WE HAVE A REALITY
THAT WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH RIGHT
NOW WE HAVE A DRASTIC SHORTAGE
OF HOUSING IN OUR COMMUNITY AND
I WOULD LOVE TO SIT DOWN FOLKS.
AND IF YOU'VE GOT GREAT IDEAS
ABOUT HOW WE GET OURSELVES OUT
OF THIS WITHOUT BUILDING MORE
HOUSING IS QUICK.
I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR THOSE
ANSWERS.
IT'S NOT THERE AREN'T EASY
THERE.
YOU KNOW THERE AREN'T EASY
SOLUTIONS TO THIS THAT MAKE
EVERYBODY FEEL HAPPY ABOUT OUR
COMMUNITY STAYING THE SAME.
WE SIMPLY HAVE TO TO TO BUILD
THE HOUSING TO HOUSE THE PEOPLE
THAT ARE LIVING HERE.
AND THEN THE OTHER ISSUE WAS
AROUND CONSTRUCTION AND I
UNDERSTAND AS WELL AND RESPECT
THAT THE DISRUPTION THAT
CONSTRUCTION CAN CAUSE IN
NEIGHBORHOODS.
BUT THE REALITY IS IS THAT
SOMETHING IS GOING TO BE BUILT
HERE.
STAFF ALREADY NOTED THAT THEY
SUPPORT SOMETHING TO THE D TO
STANDARD THAT'S THAT'S A FAIRLY
SUBSTANTIAL DEVELOPMENT AT THIS
SITE.
SO IN TERMS OF THE DISRUPTION
THAT'S GOING TO OCCUR, THAT IS
THAT THAT IS SIMPLY A PART
OF THIS PROCESS.
I DO THINK THERE WAS SOMETHING
THAT WAS NOTED AROUND THE
PROCESS OF TEARING DOWN THE
HOUSES AND WHAT WAS BROUGHT
FORWARD AND I DO PLAN TO TO
INVESTIGATE THAT A LITTLE BIT
MORE TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
IF OUR PROCESSES WERE
APPROPRIATELY FOLLOWED.
BUT IN TERMS OF CONSTRUCTION
THAT'S FOR MY PART I'M ALSO
GOING TO SUPPORT MOVING THIS
FORWARD TO SECOND READING
TONIGHT.
I DO WANT TO THANK MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY WHO HAVE
ALREADY REACHED OUT TO US BOTH
IN SUPPORT AND OPPOSITION TO
THE PROJECT WHO SIGNED THE
PETITION THAT WE RECEIVED.
HOWEVER, I ALSO HAD THE
PRIVILEGE OF ATTENDING GOVERNOR
WITTMER STATE OF THE STATE
ADDRESS EARLIER THIS YEAR AS A
GUEST OF STATE SENATOR SUE
SCHENCK.
AND I'D LIKE TO BRIEFLY QUOTE
WHAT THE GOVERNOR HAD TO SAY ON
THE ISSUE OF HOUSING DURING HER
SPEECH SHE SAID QUOTE RIGHT NOW
TOO MANY FAMILIES SPEND MORE
THAN HALF OF THEIR INCOME ON
THEIR RENT OR THEIR MORTGAGE.
OUR HOUSING STOCK IS OLD AND
NEARLY HALF OF ALL THE UNITS IN
MICHIGAN WERE BUILT BEFORE 1970
.
AND YOUNG PEOPLE CITE HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY AS ONE OF THEIR
TOP CONCERNS.
IN OTHER WORDS, THE RENT IS TOO
HIGH AND WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
HOUSING.
OUR RESPONSE WILL BE SIMPLE
BUILD BABY BUILD.
SHE WENT ON TO ISSUE A DIRECT
CALL TO COMMUNITIES LIKE OURS
AND SAID QUOTE OUR LOCAL
PARTNERS ARE GETTING IT DONE TO
IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR LET'S
KEEP GOING BUILD MORE OF EVERY
KIND OF HOUSING WE AS A
COMMUNITY MUST ANSWER THE
GOVERNOR'S CALL WHILE THIS
COUNCIL MAJORITY HAS DURING MY
TENURE BEEN WORKING DILIGENTLY
TO ADDRESS OUR ONGOING HOUSING
CRISIS TO THE BEST OF OUR
ABILITY AT THE LOCAL LEVEL.
AS THE GOVERNOR NOTED IN HER
ADDRESS, THE HOUSING CRISIS IS
A STATEWIDE CHALLENGE AND IT
REQUIRES ALL OF OUR COMMUNITIES
WORKING TOGETHER TO ADDRESS IT.
THIS IS NOT A PERFECT PROJECT
BUT IT IS A GOOD ONE.
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH WOULD ADD
TWO HUNDRED SEVENTY THREE NEW
UNITS OF HOUSING AND OVER 1000
BEDS IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
IT WOULD DO SO IN AN ALREADY
STUDENT HEAVY NEIGHBORHOOD ON
PROPERTY THAT IS KITTY CORNER
FROM A 12 STORY STUDENT
APARTMENT BUILDING AND DIRECTLY
ACROSS THE STREET FROM A
UNIVERSITY DORM AT A TIME WHEN
THE UNIVERSITY IS GOBBLING UP
PROPERTY AND REMOVING IT FROM
OUR TAX ROLLS, IT HAS
SIGNIFICANT SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES LIMITED ON SITE
PARKING AND ABUNDANT BICYCLE
PARKING FOR STUDENT RESIDENTS
TO GET AROUND CAMPUS.
FINALLY IT WILL ADD OVER SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS AS HAS BEEN
NOTED TO OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND WHICH IS NEARLY THE AMOUNT
OUR AFFORDABLE ARE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILEAGE GENERATES AND
THEN AN ENTIRE YEAR AND THIS IS
ON TOP OF ADDITIONAL TAX
REVENUE THAT THIS PROPERTY WILL
GENERATE ANNUALLY TO INVEST IN
CITY SERVICES AND TO HELP
ADDRESS OUR LOCAL SCHOOLS
BUDGETS IN THE FUTURE.
FINALLY, AS MUCH AS WE MIGHT
LIKE TO COMPEL THE UNIVERSITY
TO BUILD ENOUGH HOUSING FOR
THEIR STUDENTS, WE DO NOT HAVE
THAT AUTHORITY.
WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO
PROVIDE FOR RESIDENTS WHO
RESIDE HERE REGARDLESS OF WHO
BRINGS THEM HERE.
IF MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY
WOULD LIKE YOU OF THEM TO
PROVIDE MORE HOUSING AS WE
MIGHT AS WELL, I ALSO ENCOURAGE
YOU TO SPEAK TO YOUR ELECTED
BOARD OF REGENTS STATEWIDE
OFFICIALS WHO MEET RIGHT HERE
IN ANN ARBOR BUILDING
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS OF NEW
HOUSING DOESN'T HAPPEN
OVERNIGHT OR BY WAVING A MAGIC
WAND.
IT TAKES A LOT OF TIME, A LOT
OF PLANNING, A LOT OF RESOURCES
AND A LOT OF WELL IT ALSO TAKES
QUITE A BIT OF LUCK ESPECIALLY
IN THE MIDDLE OF A HOUSING
CRISIS WHEN ALL OF THOSE THINGS
COME TOGETHER TO PROVIDE OUR
COMMUNITY WITH THE OPPORTUNITY
TO HOUSE AN ADDITIONAL ONE
THOUSAND PEOPLE.
WE DO NOT HAVE THE LUXURY
OF TAKING OUR FOOT OFF THE GAS
WAITING AROUND AND HOPING TO
APPROVE MAJOR HOUSING LIKE THIS
VIA A DIFFERENT PROCESS AT A
DIFFERENT TIME, MAYBE AT A
DIFFERENT LOCATION ADDING MORE
TIME, MORE EXPENSE AND MORE
UNCERTAINTY TO THE EQUATION AND
ALMOST GUARANTEEING THAT THIS
SIMPLY BECOMES ANOTHER
OPPORTUNITY LOST.
SO IN MOVING THIS FORWARD
TONIGHT I CHOOSE TO ANSWER
GOVERNOR WHITMAN'S CALL LET'S
KEEP GOING.
LET'S BUILD MORE HOUSING
OF EVERY KIND AND LET'S
CONTINUE TO CONFRONT OUR
HOUSING CRISIS WITH THE ONLY
REAL SOLUTION AVAILABLE TO US
MORE HOUSING.
IS THERE FURTHER DISCUSSION?
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON?
I APPRECIATE RESIDENTS COMING
DOWN AND BOTH DESCRIBING THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS TALKING ABOUT HOW
IT'S CHANGED, TALKING ABOUT THE
FACT THAT WE'RE JUST POSING THE
QUESTION AS TO WHY WE'RE
BUILDING MORE AND MORE STUDENT
HOUSING AND OVER MY TIME IN A
SHORT TIME IN CITY GOVERNMENT
HERE THAT'S BEEN ONE OF THE
MOST COMMON QUESTIONS.
IN FACT, WHEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
KNOCK ON MY DOOR ABOUT FOUR
YEARS GO, I WAS ASKING THE SAME
QUESTION OF WHY ARE WE SEEING
SO MANY HIGH RISES BUILT AND
WHY ISN'T THE UNIVERSITY
BUILDING MORE DORMS AND
THANKFULLY WITH YOU KNOW, THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CONSULTANTS
WE HAVE SOME ANSWERS.
THE CONSULTANTS HAVE REPORTED
THAT SINCE 1970 THE GROWTH
OF THE UNIVERSITY MICHIGAN
STUDENT POPULATION HAS
ACCOUNTED FOR SEVENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF POPULATION GROWTH IN
THE CITY.
THAT HAS TO BE THE PRIMARY
REASON THAT THESE PROJECTS ARE
GETTING PROPOSED AND FINANCED.
AND I YOU KNOW, I APPRECIATE
THE RESIDENT WHO YOU KNOW, WAS
ASKING QUESTIONS ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, THE ROLE ROLE OF PRIVATE
EQUITY, THE ROLE OF HOUSING AS
AN INVESTMENT VEHICLE IN
SOLUTIONS.
THEY ARE GOING TO HAVE TO COME
FROM THE FEDERAL LEVEL IN TERMS
OF REGULATION AND OVERSIGHT.
BUT FUNDAMENTALLY, YOU KNOW,
THAT IS THE CURRENT STATE
OF HOW PROJECTS ARE BEING
FINANCED AND WE HAVE TO MEET
THE NEED FOR A PROJECT.
I REMEMBER QUITE BRIEFLY, QUITE
VISCERALLY I GUESS THIS IS THE
FOUNDRY LOSS DIVISION IN HERE
ON THERE WAS A LOT
OF CONSTERNATION IN THE
COMMUNITY WHEN THOSE WERE
PROPOSED A FEW YEARS WENT BY
THAT PROJECT WENT UP AND I HAVE
A FRIEND WHO WAS ACTUALLY A
FIRST GENERATION MICHIGAN LAW
STUDENT AND HE ENDED UP LIVING
IN THAT APARTMENT DURING HIS
TIME AT LAW SCHOOL.
SO IT REALLY DID HAPPEN.
IT BECAME OVER OVER IT OVER THE
LIFESPAN OF THAT PROJECT.
IT BECAME MORE AFFORDABLE AND
IT BECAME A USEFUL PLACE FOR
STUDENTS THAT ARE COMING IN.
I FOR FIRST TIME.
SO I HOPE TO SEE THE SAME
TRAJECTORY HERE AND I HAVE NO
REASON TO BELIEVE IT.
IS THERE FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSE IT IS
APPROVED
SEE TO AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND THE SECTIONS FIVE TO
EIGHT THAT ONE THAT BE FIVE TO
NINE THAT EIGHT THAT A FIVE TO
NINE THAT SIX AND FIVE THAT TWO
NINE EIGHT OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DEF
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
AKMAN IS THEIR DISCUSSION.
OH ACTUALLY I APOLOGIZE.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION FOR THIS MR.
ROBERTSTOWN STAFF MEMBER THAT'S
AVAILABLE TO PROVIDE ANSWERS WE
RECEIVE
AND I HOPE YOU CAN HEAR
ME WELL IF ONLY I CAN ASSIST IN
YOUR ANALYZES DELIO CITY
PLANNER WITHOUT A QUESTION FROM
THE COUNCIL MEMBER.
THE QUESTION IS SPECIFICALLY
SUMMARY SAYS THE REVIEW PROCESS
WITH THESE AMENDMENTS REVEALED
ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR
FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO CHANGE
UPDATE OR CLARIFY ORDINANCE
LANGUAGE PARTICULARLY IN THE
AREAS OF CLEAR COMPLIANCE
THRESHOLDS AND MITIGATION
MEASURES BASED ON THE RESULTS
OF ALL OF MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
ARE PRESENTED AT THIS TIME BUT
MAY BE COMPOSED OF STAFF TIME
AND RESOURCES ALLOW CAN STAFF
EXPLAIN WHAT'S BEING DONE WITH
THESE PROPERTY OR
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
THAT I WILL IN RESPONDING I'LL
POINT OUT TO ONE OF THE LINKED
FILES ON THE AGENDA IT IS FILE
TWENTY THREE CASH TWO ZERO
EIGHT TWO
AND IT IS TO A
PLANNING COMMISSION FILE THAT
INCLUDES A MEMO FROM JUNE
TWENTY SEVENTH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AND OVERSEES STAFF MEMO
ON MTA REQUIREMENTS STANDARDS
AND OFFERS A DIAGNOSIS AND
COMMENTARY ON ALL THINGS
RELATED TO TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS OF OUR
DEVELOPMENT CODE WHICH ARE ONE
AND HOW A TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS IS REQUIRED.
THAT'S IN SECTION FIVE TWENTY
NINE EIGHT TO THE CRITERIA FOR
REVIEW OF TILLET IN SECTION
FIVE TWENTY NINE SIX E AND THE
THREE STANDARDS OF STANDARDS
FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL IN
SECTION FIVE TWENTY NINE SIX C
THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE TONIGHT
ONLY ADDRESSES THE FIRST WHEN
AND HOW A TIAA IS REQUIRED AS
ARTICULATED IN THAT JUNE TWENTY
SEVEN TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEMO.
THERE IS A LOT OF ROOM FOR
IMPROVEMENT TO THE CRITERIA FOR
REVIEW OF A TIA IN PARTICULAR
WHICH ARE WEAK AND VEHICLE
FOCUSED AND THE APPROVAL
STANDARDS FOR SITE PLANS IN
GENERAL DO NOT EVEN ADDRESS
TRANSPORTATION IMPACTS IS NOT
TO SAY THAT WORK IN THE WILD
WEST RIGHT NOW AND OPERATING
NILLY WHEN WE DO WORK WITH
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
OR MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS OR
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS HAVE
BEEN TAKING THE ADAPTIVE GOALS
EXPRESSED IN MOVING TOGETHER
TOWARD VISION ZERO
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN FOR EXAMPLE INTO ACCOUNT
IN THEIR REVIEWS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR QUITE SOME
TIME TRANSPORTATION SAID WORK
WITH DEVELOPERS AND ADVOCATES
ON EITHER REFINING PROPOSALS
LIKE MY LAYOUTS OR MAKING
COMMITMENTS YOU OFF SITE WORK
IN THE FORM OF ADDING OR
REMOVING TURN LANES OR IN ROAD
BICYCLE FACILITIES OR WORK AT
SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS
PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS FOR
EXAMPLE AND PLANNING STAFF MAKE
IT A POINT TO HIGHLIGHT THESE
FEATURES AND OUR REPORTS AND
INCLUDE THEM IN DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS.
HOWEVER, TO DATE THIS PROCESS
RELIES ON AGREEMENT, COMPROMISE
AND NEGOTIATION BECAUSE AT THE
END OF THE DAY THERE IS NOTHING
IN THE SITE PLAN APPROVAL
STANDARDS THAT REQUIRE SUCH.
BUT SOME COUNCIL MEMBERS MIGHT
RECALL THE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A NINE NINE NINE NEEDED
LANES.
I CAN I KNOW THAT'S FILE NUMBER
TWENTY THREE DASH TEN TWENTY
FOUR.
IT WAS APPROVED ON JULY 17TH
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND IN THAT
OUR TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
RECOMMENDED DENIALS BECAUSE THE
PROJECT FOLLOWED THE
CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR REQUIRED
INFORMATION AND REVIEW
CRITERIA.
BUT DID NOT PROVIDE MULTIMODAL
INFORMATION OR FURTHER THE
GOALS OF VISION ZERO MILES
BEFORE THE COUNCIL TONIGHT IS
THE LOW HANGING FRUIT THAT IS
ESSENTIAL FOR CLARITY AND
CONSISTENCY.
STEPS WILL BE HARDER BECAUSE
ALTHOUGH THE CONCEPTUAL WORK IS
CLEAR ACTUALLY DEVELOPING A
ROBUST SET OF REVIEW CRITERIA
AND FERESTEN TO APPROVAL WILL
TAKE SOME TIME AND DEDICATED
RESOURCES.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE FURTHER DISCUSSION?
COUNCIL MEMBER ECKMANN THANK
YOU FOR THOSE WHO ARE FOLLOWING
ALONG AND MAYBE DIDN'T READ
THIS I WAS HAPPY TO SEE THIS
THIS ACTUALLY UPDATE CDC TO
REFERENCE THE TWENTY TWENTY
THREE MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERS TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS WHICH IS A MOUTHFUL AS
OPPOSED TO THE TWENTY TWENTY
GUIDE AND IN THE REPORT THEY
HIGHLIGHTED SOME OF THE
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THIS THAT I
THINK ARE A POSITIVE EVEN
DESPITE THE FACT THAT THIS IS
THE LOW HANGING FRUIT.
WE'RE NOT REALLY WE HAVE
FURTHER STEPS TO TAKE IN THE
FUTURE.
SO IT INCLUDES SIDEWALK GAP
ANALYSIS TO DETERMINE THE
ABILITY TO TRAVEL TO AND FROM A
SITE AS A PEDESTRIAN TRANSIT
STOP AND ADA ACCESSIBILITY TO
AND FROM THE SITE BICYCLE AND
PEDESTRIAN QUALITY OF LEVEL
QUALITY AND LEVEL OF SERVICE
AND THE IMPACTS OF THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT WILL HAVE ON THE
SAFETY PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES
OF AN INTERSECTION OR CORRIDOR
ESPECIALLY THE ONES THAT ARE
LOCATED SORRY ESPECIALLY THE
LOCATIONS THAT ARE IDENTIFIED
IN THE AREA MOVING TOGETHER
PLAN.
SO YOU KNOW I THINK THIS IS A
POSITIVE BECAUSE IT PRESENTS
CLARITY AND WHAT'S BEING ASKED
OF DEVELOPERS AND SOUNDS LIKE
THIS IS WHAT STAFF HAS BEEN
PUSHING PEOPLE TO USE ANYWAY
AND IT GETS RID OF SPECIFICS
THAT ARE EITHER REDUNDANT OR
CONFUSING SINCE THE DETAILS ARE
ACTUALLY IN THE GUIDE.
YOU KNOW THE CONCERNS I'VE HAD
WITH LEVEL OF SERVICE WHICH IS
ONE COMPONENT OF THIS VEHICLE
FOCUSED EVALUATION
OF DEVELOPMENTS IS THAT IT
PLACES A FOCUS ON TRAFFIC
CONGESTION THAT I DON'T THINK
IS ALL THAT HELPFUL, ESPECIALLY
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
DEVELOPMENT IN THE CITY WHERE
PEOPLE ARE YOU KNOW, PROBABLY
BEING BROUGHT CLOSER TO THEIR
WORKPLACES.
SO I THINK THIS IS A POSITIVE
MOVE.
I WOULD LIKE TO LEARN MORE
ABOUT HOW THIS IS BEING APPLIED
AND LOOK CRITICALLY ABOUT HOW
WE'RE USING CERTAIN THRESHOLDS.
BUT THIS SEEMS LIKE A POSITIVE
MOVE TODAY.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF IT IS
APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO MOTIONS AND
RESOLUTIONS DC ONE A RESOLUTION
TO DIRECT THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF AN OFFICE OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND DIRECTING CITY
ADMINISTRATION TO PRIORITIZE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AT ALL
INCOME LEVELS TO SUPPORT
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY TAX BASE
DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMAKING AS
THE CITY'S STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
FOR THE LAND DEVELOPMENT MOVED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IGHER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER IHR THANK THANK YOU.
SO THE FOUR RESOLUTIONS BEFORE
US TONIGHT REPRESENT A
SIGNIFICANT MILESTONE IN OUR
CITY'S RESPONSE TO OUR HOUSING
CRISIS.
THIS WORK BEGAN WITH AN
INITIATIVE I BROUGHT TO THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION IN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO AND UNDER THE DIRECTION
OF MR. TONY AND MR. FOURNIER
EVOLVED INTO THE REPORT THAT
COUNCIL RECEIVED IN DECEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE TONIGHT
I HOPE WE WILL ENDORSE THE
FINDINGS OF THAT REPORT AND
PROVIDE CLEAR DIRECTION TO THIS
CITY ADMINISTRATOR FOR
IMPLEMENTING ITS
RECOMMENDATIONS.
THIS FIRST RESOLUTION PROVIDES
FOR OVERARCHING POLICY
DIRECTIVES WHICH TAKEN TOGETHER
WILL HELP CREATE A MORE
EQUITABLE AND SUSTAINABLE
FUTURE FOR RESIDENTS THE BANABA
THE CORE OBJECTIVES ARE TO
SUPPORT HOUSING AFFORDABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY IN THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT PLACEMAKING AND TAX
BASE IMPROVEMENTS AND ARBOR'S
IN THE MIDST OF A HOUSING
CRISIS DECADES IN THE MAKING
DUE TO THE RESTRICTIVE POLICIES
AND PROCESSES THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS SEEK TO CORRECT
IN DROPPING THESE RESOLUTIONS
WE WILL RECOGNIZE THE CRITICAL
IMPORTANCE OF HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY AND COMMIT TO
CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE
PEOPLE WHO WORK IN ANN ARBOR
CAN FIND A PLACE TO LIVE HERE
IF THAT IS THEIR PREFERENCE.
THE BODY OF HOUSING RESEARCH
CLEARLY DEMONSTRATES THAT THE
LAWS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND DO
APPLY TO HOUSING WHICH MEANS WE
NEED NEW MARKET RATE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT IN ADDITION TO CITY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING INITIATIVES.
THIS FIRST RESOLUTION ALSO
DIRECTS THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO ESTABLISH AN OFFICE
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LED BY
A QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL.
THIS OFFICE WILL SPEARHEAD
EFFORTS SUCH AS STRATEGIC
PROPERTY ACQUISITION, SUPPORT
FOR UNDERUTILIZED PROPERTIES,
SUPERVISION OF MAJOR LAND
DEVELOPMENTS AND SMALL BUSINESS
SUPPORT PARTICULARLY FOR
MINORITY IMMIGRANT AND WOMEN
OWNED BUSINESSES.
FOR FAR TOO LONG, ANN ARBOR HAS
LEFT LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
TO THE WHIMS OF MARKET FORCES.
WE ARE FORTUNATE TO BE A CITY
THAT CONTINUES TO GROW DESPITE
THIS BUT AS WE HAVE SEEN LACK
OF INTERVENTION HAS LED TO OUR
HOUSING CRISIS, TAX BASE
EROSION AND MISSED
OPPORTUNITIES FOR PLACEMAKING
AND SUSTAINABILITY IN
DEVELOPMENT.
SO WHILE MARKET FORCES ARE
POWERFUL DRIVERS OF ECONOMIC
ACTIVITY, CITY LED
INTERVENTIONS ARE ESSENTIAL TO
ADDRESS MARKET SHORTCOMINGS,
ENSURE EQUITABLE AND
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND BUILD A
RESILIENT AND VIBRANT COMMUNITY
WITH THESE RESOLUTIONS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WILL BE
AUTHORIZED TO BRING FORTH ANY
NECESSARY ORDINANCE CHANGES,
BUDGET AMENDMENTS AND
RESOLUTIONS TO IMPLEMENT THESE
DIRECTIVES EFFECTIVELY THESE
RESOLUTIONS MARK A
TRANSFORMATIONAL STEP IN
LEADING ANN ARBOR FORWARD.
WE AIM TO MOVE TOWARDS A MORE
INCLUSIVE, VIBRANT COMMUNITY
THAT WELCOMES NEW NEIGHBORS WHO
WILL IN TURN SUPPORT OUR LOCAL
BUSINESSES, SCHOOLS, COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS AND WHO WILL
CONTRIBUTE TO FUNDING OUR LOCAL
GOVERNMENT IN ORDER THAT IT MAY
CONTINUE PROVIDING THE
EXCELLENT CITY SERVICES THAT
OUR CURRENT RESIDENTS EXPECT
AND DESERVE THE FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNEAU I WILL BE BRIEF BECAUSE
COUNCIL MEMBER IOSIF VERY
ELOQUENTLY POINTED OUT THE
BENEFITS OF THIS.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE ALL
OF THIS COME FORWARD.
I THINK ONE THING THAT I WANTED
TO JUST CALL OUT IS GRATITUDE
TO CITY STAFF FOR THE TIME THAT
THEY PUT INTO WORKING ON THIS
COUNCIL MEMBER.
I MENTIONED THAT IT WAS SEVERAL
YEARS OF RESEARCH THAT WENT
INTO THIS.
MR. FOURNIER MET WITH ALL OF US
INDIVIDUALLY.
WE HAD MULTIPLE WORKING
SESSIONS ON IT.
SO THIS IS A THIS IS A
CULMINATION OF A PROCESS THAT I
BELIEVE HAS HAD A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF INPUT CONSIDERATION
DISCUSSIONS AROUND AND BEING
ABLE TO BRING IT TO THE
COMMUNITY AND GET THE BALL
ROLLING ON SOME OF THESE
IMPORTANT INITIATIVES TO CREATE
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY HERE TO
MAKE SURE THAT OUR OUR ECONOMY
IS HEALTHY BY BEING ABLE TO
SUPPORT PEOPLE WORKING IN OUR
COMMUNITY LIVING HERE,
ENTREPRENEURS STARTING
BUSINESSES HERE UNDERSTANDING
THE PROCESS OF DOING THAT CAN
BE REALLY COMPLICATED FOR FIRST
TIME BUSINESS OWNERS FOR EVEN
BUSINESS WHO'VE DONE WORK IN
OTHER CITIES AND THEN COME HERE
TO FIND THAT OUR RESTRICTIONS
AND YOU KNOW, PROCESSES ARE
ONEROUS AND DIFFERENT THAN
OTHER CITIES.
I THINK SOME OF THE FINDINGS
OF THAT REPORT REALLY DID A
GREAT JOB OF DETAILING
ILLUSTRATING WHAT THE
OPPORTUNITIES ARE NOW WE HAVE A
CHANCE TO TO EVALUATE THEM CASE
BY CASE AND MOVE FORWARD THE
ONES THAT ALIGN THE MOST WITH
OUR CITY'S VALUES AND THAT'S
WHAT'S REALLY EXCITING TO ME.
THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S AND I'D
LIKE TO ECHO MY THANKS TO STAFF
ON THIS.
THERE'S A LOT OF WORK THAT'S
BEEN PUT INTO THIS.
A LOT OF THE WORK SESSIONS TO
HELP US UNDERSTAND IT BETTER
AND THE FACT THAT WE'RE ON THIS
SERIES OF RESOLUTIONS WILL HELP
US GET A LOT MORE INFORMATION
TO BE ABLE TO MAKE EDUCATED
DECISIONS AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF EXCITING OPPORTUNITIES WE'VE
SEEN IN OUR INITIAL BUDGET
FORECAST OF WHAT THE FUTURE
POTENTIAL REVENUE SHORTFALL IS
COMING IN THE FUTURE.
AND I THINK ONE OF THE FEW
MECHANISMS WE HAVE TO TO CHANGE
THAT FORECAST IS GREATER
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT THAT
INCREASES OUR TAX BASE.
I WILL NOTE THAT YOU KNOW, I AM
I AM CURIOUS TO SEE THIS COMES
BACK THROUGH THE BUDGET PROCESS
HOW THIS ACTUALLY PLAYS OUT IN
TERMS OF HOW CAN WE AFFORD
THIS?
CAN WE AFFORD IT NOW?
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THE BUDGET
CONVERSATION.
BUT THE ONLY WAY THAT WE GET TO
HAVE THAT CONVERSATION IS TO
PASS THESE RESOLUTIONS.
COUNCIL MEMBER THANK YOU.
I THINK IT'S SOMEWHAT
SURPRISING THAT WE DON'T HAVE
THIS FUNCTION IN OUR CITY RIGHT
NOW GIVEN OUR SIZE AND THE
AMOUNT OF JOBS BEING A JOB
CENTER IN THE STATE FIFTH
LARGEST CITY IN THE STATE I
BELIEVE RIGHT NOW.
BUT I THINK ALSO AS COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS ALLUDED TO, WE
SHOULDN'T TAKE LIGHTLY ADDING
PERMANENT STAFF TO OUR GENERAL
FUND.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING I KIND
OF ASKED ABOUT LIKE HOW DO WE
KIND OF THINK ABOUT THE COST
VERSUS BENEFIT UNDERSTANDING
OF COURSE THAT YOU NEED TO
INVEST IN CERTAIN AREAS IN
ORDER TO GROW.
SO I ASKED MR. FOURNIER EARLIER
TODAY AND HE RESPONDED YOU
KNOW, I JUST BASICALLY ASKED
ARE WE THINKING ABOUT LIKE HOW
WE MEASURE COST VERSUS BENEFIT
AND HE SAID THE COST WOULD BE
OFFSET OVER TIME BY NEW
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS.
FOR INSTANCE, ONE MAJOR REAL
ESTATE DEVELOPMENT WOULD CREATE
ENOUGH GENERAL FUND REVENUE TO
OFFSET ONE TO TWO POSITIONS IN
PERPETUITY FOR YEARS TO COME.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING I'M GOING
TO BE YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY
TAKING A CLOSE LOOK AT AS THE
BUDGET COMES FORWARD.
BUT I THINK WE NEED TO THINK
MORE STRATEGICALLY AND KIND
OF TAKE OUR FUTURE INTO OUR OWN
HANDS INSTEAD OF BEING SORT
OF HAPHAZARD OR EXPECTING
THINGS JUST TO COME TO US,
THINKS COUNCIL MEMBERS ON I
THINK THIS WORD DIRECTLY
ADDRESSES THE ARE CONTINUAL
PROBLEM WITH THE UNIVERSITY'S
LAND ACQUISITION AND HOW AS
THEY ROLL OUT THEIR OTHER PLANS
FOR 2050 THERE'S THERE ARE NO
PROMISES THAT YOU HAVE AND WILL
STOP ACQUIRING PARCELS.
THERE'S SOME POLITENESS AROUND
IT.
WHEN THEY HAD ANNOUNCED THEIR
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR
2015 THE VERY NEXT DAY THERE
WAS NEWS THAT THEY HAD ACQUIRED
A PARCEL OF GREEN ROAD.
WHAT I LIKE ABOUT THIS PLAN IS
THAT IT DIRECTLY ACKNOWLEDGES
THE COST TO THE CITY IN TERMS
OF OUR TAX BASE EVERY TIME YOU
HAVE AND DOES THIS AND IT'S AN
ARGUMENT FOR ADDING TO OUR TAX
BASE IN A PRODUCTIVE WAY ASIDE
FROM WHY DOESN'T YOU BEHAVE
MORE NEIGHBORLY, MORE POLITELY
?
IT'S A IT'S A STATE ENTITY, A
STATE AUTHORITY THAT WE CANNOT
TAX.
IT'S BEEN A REALITY FOR QUITE
SOME TIME AND WE DON'T HAVE TO
WAIT UNTIL 2050 TO ADDRESS THAT
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I ALSO WANT TO
THANK THE SPONSORS FOR THEIR
WORK ON THIS STUFF.
I KNOW THAT THIS HAS BEEN A LOT
OF WORK THAT HAS GONE INTO THIS
OVER THE OVER A PERIOD OF MANY
MONTHS INCLUDING A WORK SESSION
,DISCUSSIONS WITH COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND THEN THE WORK THAT
WENT INTO THESE RESOLUTIONS.
I DO WANT TO NOTE I THINK ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT EXCITES ME
ABOUT THIS AND THAT I'VE BEEN
TRYING TO KIND OF WRAP MY HEAD
AROUND AND GLAD TO HAVE STAFF
LOOKING AT THIS AS WELL IS IS
SOME OF THE STRATEGIC PROPERTY
ACQUISITION THAT WE WOULD BE
LOOKING AT INTO THE FUTURE.
AND I'VE MENTIONED TO MANY
OF YOU I HATE TO BRING UP A
SORE SUBJECT BUT AS MANY OF YOU
KNOW, I GOT TO GO VISIT OUR
SISTER CITY IN GERMANY AND ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT THAT REALLY
DIFFERENTIATED THEIR HOUSING
MARKET FROM OUR OWN IS THAT THE
CITY WAS A MAJOR PLAYER IN THE
REAL ESTATE MARKET WHICH
ALLOWED THEM TO HELP CONTROL
SOME OF THOSE HOUSING COSTS
WHICH ALLOWED THEM TO BE
COMPETITIVE, WHICH ALLOWED THEM
TO DEVELOP THESE COOPERATIVE
DISTRICTS THROUGHOUT THE
COMMUNITY.
THOSE ARE THINGS THAT THAT WE
JUST HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO DO
BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T BEEN
THINKING ABOUT IT IN THE SAME
WAY AND SO I'M EXCITED TO SEE
SOME OF SOME OF HOW THIS WILL
PLAY OUT AND SEE SEE IT AS IT
COMES BACK TO US.
BUT SOME OF THE OPPORTUNITIES
THAT MIGHT EXIST HERE REALLY,
REALLY GIVE ME SOME REAL GREAT
ENTHUSIASM FOR WHAT MIGHT BE TO
COME.
SO FOR THEIR DISCUSSION, ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSE IT IS
APPROVED D.C. TO A RESOLUTION
TO DIRECT TO THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO IMPLEMENT NEW
PROCESSES AND PROGRAMS FOR
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AT ALL
INCOME LEVELS TO SUPPORT
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IGHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DAVE, THANK YOU.
I WANT TO JUST PREFACE MY
SPECIFIC REMARKS ABOUT THIS
RESOLUTION BY SAYING THAT WE'VE
HEARD WE RECEIVED A NUMBER
OF EMAILS TODAY ABOUT PEOPLE
WHO ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
THE DETAILS OF THESE ORDINANCES
BUT WE'RE NOT AT THE DETAILS
YET.
THESE RESOLUTIONS DO NOT
PRESCRIBE SPECIFIC ORDINANCE
CHANGES.
THEY DIRECT STAFF TO ANALYZE
AND RETURN TO COUNCIL WITH
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ORDINANCE
AND OTHER CHANGES THAT WILL BE
THOROUGHLY VETTED IN PUBLIC AND
VOTED ON ONCE THEY HAVE BEEN
THOUGHTFULLY CRAFTED AND
CONSIDERED AND I WOULD I WOULD
URGE ALL OF YOU TO SIT DOWN FOR
AN HOUR AND A HALF PLAN AN HOUR
AND A HALF AND READ THE REPORT
A NEW APPROACH TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT OR YOU CAN WATCH
COUNCIL TV.
WE HAD TWO WORKING SESSIONS ONE
IN DECEMBER AND ONE IN FEBRUARY
WHERE THIS REPORT WAS PRESENTED
AND WE DISCUSSED PARTS OF IT.
SO ANY WAY YOU SLICE IT YOU CAN
UNDERSTAND OR YOU CAN ENGAGE
WITH WHAT'S IN THIS REPORT AND
THEN YOU WILL BE EVEN BETTER
PREPARED TO ENGAGE IN A YEAR OR
SO WITH THE RESULTS OF THESE
RESOLUTIONS AS THEY COME BACK.
SO THIS RESOLUTION IS BASED ON
THE IDEA THAT PURSUING THAT
IDEA ON RESEARCH THAT
ESTABLISHES DEFINITIVELY THAT
PURSUING DEVELOPMENT HOUSING AT
ALL INCOME LEVELS IS AN
IMPORTANT COMPONENT
OF AFFORDABILITY BECAUSE
PUBLICLY SUBSIDIZED HOUSING
CANNOT GET US ALL THE WAY
THERE.
I AM TREMENDOUSLY GRATEFUL TO
LIVE IN AND SERVE IN A
COMMUNITY THAT WOULD VOTE TO
TAX ITSELF TO ADVANCE HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY.
ONLY A HANDFUL OF COMMUNITIES
HAVE AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILLAGE BUT EVEN THIS IS NOT
ENOUGH.
WE NEED TO LET THERE BE HEIGHT
WHERE HEIGHT IS RIGHT, WHERE IT
PUTS PEOPLE WITHIN WALKING,
BIKING, PASSING DISTANCES
OF THE PLACE THEY WORK AND
STUDY.
EVEN MARKET RATE RESIDENTIAL
HIGH RISES WILL MAKE THE
OVERALL PRICE OF HOUSING
HOUSING LOWER.
THAT'S NOT ONLY BECAUSE NEW
MARKET RATE HOUSING REDUCES THE
GAP BETWEEN SUPPLY AND DEMAND
BUT IT'S BECAUSE IT CREATES A
KIND OF GENERATIONAL
REPLACEMENT WITHIN THE HOUSING
MARKET AS NEWER DEVELOPMENTS
ARE CREATED , INDIVIDUALS WHO
CAN AFFORD THEM MOVE UP TO THIS
NEW OR MARGINALLY MORE
EXPENSIVE HOUSING AND THE UNITS
THEY VACATE BECOME ACCESSIBLE
TO LOWER INCOME RENTERS NOT LOW
INCOME RENTERS BUT LOWER INCOME
THAN THEY ARE RENTERS.
YOU CAN READ ABOUT THIS IN A
TERRIFIC ARTICLE CALLED SUPPLY
SKEPTICISM THAT I WILL SEND YOU
IF YOU WANT IT.
YOU CAN ALSO READ JOHN
FOURNIER'S A NEW APPROACH TO
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PAGES 17
TO 22 WHICH IS AVAILABLE ALL
OVER OUR WEBSITE.
SORRY, I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THESE EXCELLENT
RESOLUTIONS PUT A LOT OF WORK
ON OUR STAFF'S TABLE WHEN THERE
IS ALREADY A LOT OF WORK GOING
ON.
IT WILL BE IMPORTANT MOVING
FORWARD TO PRIORITIZE THE
VARIOUS INITIATIVES THAT WE ARE
APPROVING TONIGHT TO ASSESS
WHAT OUR IN-HOUSE STAFF HAS THE
CAPACITY TO ACHIEVE AND AS
OTHERS HAVE ALSO MENTIONED TO
SEE A PROPOSAL IN THE UPCOMING
BUDGET PROCESS TO FUND
ADDITIONAL CONTRACT HIRING TO
MOVE THIS IMPORTANT AND URGENT
WORK FORWARD.
AND I AM SO GRATEFUL TO BE PART
OF THIS.
THIS IS WHY I WANT TO DO THIS.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER.
I THANK YOU.
AS HAS BEEN NOTED EARLIER
TONIGHT ACROSS MANY COMMUNITIES
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY AND
HOUSING SUPPLY HAS BECOME A
SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGE IMPACTING
INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES FROM
ALL WALKS OF LIFE.
WE'VE HAD LEADERS FROM
PRESIDENT BIDEN TO GRETCHEN
WHITMER AND DOWN HERE TO OUR
COUNCIL TABLE CALLING FOR
CHANGE IN OUR COMMUNITIES TO
ADDRESS THIS CRITICAL ISSUE
OF A HOUSING SHORTAGE AT THE
HEART OF THIS CRISIS LIES A
FUNDAMENTAL IMBALANCE BETWEEN
SUPPLY AND DEMAND AND OVER THE
YEARS DEMAND FOR HOUSING HAS
CONTINUED TO RISE DRIVEN BY
FACTORS SUCH AS POPULATION
GROWTH, URBANIZATION AND
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY.
HOWEVER, THE SUPPLY OF HOUSING
HAS FAILED TO KEEP PACE WITH
THAT INCREASING DEMAND LEADING
TO THOSE SOARING PRICES AND
LIMITED AVAILABILITY THAT WE
SEE THE ROOTS OF THE SUPPLY
ISSUE OUR MULTIFACETED LAND USE
REGULATIONS, ZONING
RESTRICTIONS AND CUMBERSOME
PERMITTING PROCESS PROCESSES
HAVE HINDERED THE CONSTRUCTION
OF NEW HOUSING UNITS,
EXACERBATING THAT SUPPLY
SHORTAGE.
ADDITIONALLY, STAGNANT WAGES
AND RISING CONSTRUCTION COSTS
HAVE FURTHER STRAINED
AFFORDABILITY, PARTICULARLY FOR
LOW AND MIDDLE INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS SPECIFICALLY HERE IN
ANN ARBOR OVER THE PAST TWO
DECADES THE UNIVERSITY HAS
ADDED ABOUT 13000 NEW STUDENTS
BUT ONLY 1000 NEW STUDENT
HOUSING BEDS ON CAMPUS.
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT HAS ADDED
ABOUT FIVE THOUSAND BEDS NEAR
CAMPUS BUT WE ARE STILL MORE
THAN 6000
SHORT FOR STUDENT
HOUSING, THE UNIVERSITY HAS
ADDED.
ALSO MORE THAN 6000 NEW JOBS IN
THE PAST FEW YEARS AND THE
PRIVATE SECTOR HAS ADDED MORE
THAN TWENTY TWO THOUSAND NEW
JOBS TO THE ANN ARBOR AREA OVER
THE PAST DECADE.
SO WE HAVE FORTY THOUSAND NEW
STUDENTS AND WORKERS ADDED TO
THE AREA OVER THE PAST TWO
DECADES AND AGAIN ONLY AROUND
6000 NEW BEDS ALMOST GEARED
TOWARD STUDENTS.
SO THIS LACK OF HOUSING SUPPLY
COUPLED WITH HIGH DEMAND HAS
DRIVEN UP PRICES SO MUCH THAT
PEOPLE WHO WORK OR GO TO SCHOOL
HERE CANNOT FIND HOUSING THEY
CAN AFFORD SO THEY COMMUTE IN
TO ANN ARBOR EVERY DAY
INCREASING TRAFFIC CAUSING WEAR
TEAR ON OUR ROADS AND RELEASING
HARMFUL CARBON DIOXIDE
EMISSIONS.
OUR RENTAL VACANCY RATE, AS I
NOTED EARLIER, IS NEAR ZERO
WHILE HEALTHY RATE THAT KEEPS
RENTS STABLE IS SAID TO BE
AROUND SEVEN PERCENT SO THAT
PUSHES RENTS EVER HIGHER AND
THE WEALTHIEST HOMEBUYERS GET
INTO BIDDING WARS OVER THE FEW
HOUSES AVAILABLE CAUSING
GENTRIFICATION OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
SO CRUCIALLY THE PRIMARY
OBJECTIVE OF THIS RESOLUTION
WE'RE VOTING FOR NOW IS TO
FOSTER HOUSING AFFORDABILITY
THROUGH THE INCREASE IN SUPPLY.
THE COUNCIL DIRECTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO PURSUE A
SERIES OF CHANGES TO CITY
PROCESSES INCLUDING
STREAMLINING SITE PLAN
REQUIREMENTS, ENHANCING PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT AND EXPLORING
OPTIONS TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY
IN BUILDING CODE COMPLIANCE.
THESE RECOMMENDATIONS WERE
CRAFTED AFTER A THOROUGH
PROCESS OF INTERVIEWING
STAKEHOLDERS THROUGHOUT THE
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY TO LEARN WHICH
ASPECTS OF THE SYSTEM ARE
DRIVING UP COSTS UNNECESSARILY
AS WELL AS BENCHMARKING US
AGAINST PEER CITIES AND
EXAMINING THEIR BEST PRACTICES
.
THIS PROBABLY WAS THE MEDIA.
IT DEFINITELY IS THE MEDIA
RESOLUTION AND IT WAS THE PART
OF THIS ENTIRE PROCESS THAT
TOOK THE MOST STAFF TIME AND
RESEARCH AND I REALLY
APPRECIATE MY YOU KNOW, MY
HAT'S OFF TO YOU, MR. FOURNIER
AND THE REST OF CITY STAFF
COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES.
IS THERE FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL THANKS.
THIS IS VERY MEETING'S 13
INDIVIDUAL WILL BE ON THAT
RESOLVED CLAUSES AND ASKED FOR
A LOT.
I WOULD APPRECIATE CLARITY.
SOME OF THESE ARE VERY CLEARLY
ASKING FOR CHANGES TO THE UDC.
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL I THINK IF
STAFF COULD SPEAK TO WHAT THAT
INVOLVES IN TERMS OF NEXT STEPS
BECAUSE I THINK SOME PEOPLE ARE
WONDERING WHAT DECISIONS ARE WE
MAKING TONIGHT VERSUS WHAT
DECISIONS ARE A DIRECTION TO
FORWARD BUT THEY'RE STILL GOING
TO BE FURTHER DISCUSSION VOTE
AND DETAILS.
MR. FOURNIER
, THANK YOU.
LOVERS OF COUNCIL.
I'M JOHN FORNIER, DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND TO ANSWER
YOUR QUESTIONS SUCCINCTLY AT
THE CONCLUSION OF THIS MEETING
THIS WEEK I WILL BE TALKING TO
OUR PLANNING STAFF BRETT
LEINERT, DEREK DELACOURT AND WE
WILL BE PENCILING OUT WHAT OUR
WORK PLAN IS TO ACHIEVE THE
THINGS IN THE RESOLUTION.
SOME OF THESE CHANGES WE WILL
BE ABLE TO BRING FORWARD MORE
QUICKLY THAN OTHERS.
SOME OF THEM ARE CHANGES IN THE
UDC THAT WILL REQUIRE A LITTLE
MORE WORK, A LITTLE MORE
COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS
OF STATE LAW.
SOME OF THESE CHANGES WILL
REQUIRE US TO BRING ON A
CONSULTANT EXTERNALLY TO HELP
US GET THE WORK DONE SO I CAN'T
SPEAK IT MUCH MORE SPECIFIC
DETAIL ABOUT WHAT WILL REQUIRE
WHAT BECAUSE I WANT TO HAVE A
CHANCE TO REALLY WORK THROUGH
THAT PLAN WITH STAFF.
BUT THIS WORK WILL COME, YOU
KNOW, AT ITS PACE OVER TIME
OVER THE HORIZON THAT'S
OUTLINED IN THE RESOLUTION.
BUT I GUESS TO BE CLEAR AND
MAYBE THIS IS MORE A STATEMENT
FOR THE PUBLIC THAN ANYTHING
BUT FOR EXAMPLE THERE ARE
SUGGESTED CHANGES TO PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT AROUND SITE PLANS TO
MAKE A MORE EFFECTIVE AND
TIMELY FOR THE PUBLIC.
I APPRECIATE THE GENERAL THRUST
BUT I DON'T WE'RE JUST TO
CLARIFY WE'RE NOT DECIDING HERE
TODAY WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE IN
THE FUTURE SOMETHING WILL BE
COMING BACK TO US FOR
DISCUSSION AND CONSIDERATION
ABOUT THOSE DETAILS.
THAT IS CORRECT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER UM, COULD
YOU SPEAK A LITTLE BIT MORE TO
THE ITEM THAT IS ABOUT
CORRESPONDING SITE
IMPROVEMENTS?
SORRY, THAT'S NOT WHAT IT IS.
THE THING ABOUT UTILITIES
SHAUNAK UTILITY UPSIZING.
YES.
CAN YOU SPEAK A LITTLE BIT MORE
TO THAT?
SURE.
SO THAT THE SPECIFIC SECTION
THAT YOU REFERENCED WHEN YOU
ASKED YOUR QUESTION OF ME
EARLIER TODAY IS THERE'S A
PROVISION IN OUR CITY ORDINANCE
THAT REQUIRES THE PRIVATELY
OWNED SERVICE LINES THAT RUN
FROM THE CITY OWNED UTILITY TO
THE PROPERTY TO BE SIZED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE MAXIMUM
ALLOWABLE BUILDING UNDER OUR
ZONING THAT'S NOT ALWAYS THE
SIZE OF BUILDING THAT GETS
PROPOSED.
A LOT OF TIMES THERE ARE
BUILDINGS THAT ARE SMALLER THAN
WHAT'S ALLOWED UNDER ZONING BUT
BECAUSE OF THE WAY OUR
ORDINANCE ARE WRITTEN WE STILL
REQUIRE THAT SERVICE LINE TO BE
UPSIZED.
DEVELOPERS ARE FRUSTRATED WITH
IT.
OUR STAFF IS ALSO FRUSTRATED
WITH IT.
THEY DON'T LIKE TELLING A
PROPERTY OWNER WE KNOW THAT THE
LINE GETS IN THE GROUND NOW IS
FINE AND CAN APPROPRIATELY
SERVICE YOUR BUILDING BUT WE'RE
GOING TO MAKE YOU SPEND AN
EXTRA TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
TO DIG IT UP AND PUT A NEW ONE
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND SO THIS IS ABOUT THE
PRIVATELY OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE
AND MAKING SURE THAT THAT IS
SIMPLY SIZED FOR THE BUILDING
THAT'S BEING PROPOSED RATHER
THAN THE MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE
THAT'S ALLOWABLE UNDER ZONING.
IS THERE FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
SOME MORE BRICKS?
AND JUST TO FOLLOW UP ON THAT
LAST POINT I HAD COMMUNICATED
WITH YOU ABOUT THIS ONE AS
WELL.
I MEAN I IT'LL BE I THINK IT
VERY IMPORTANT TO SEE HOW THESE
THE DETAILS OF THIS WHEN IT
COMES BACK TO COUNCIL IN TERMS
OF WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS ARE TO
OUR BUDGET AND ALSO FUTURE
BUDGET.
I KNOW THAT I SUSPECT THAT
THESE REGULATIONS HAVE BEEN PUT
IN PLACE IN THE PAST IN SOME
WAYS TRYING TO ENSURE THAT
RESIDENTS IN THE FUTURE AREN'T
PAYING YOU KNOW, THAT WE'RE
PAYING FOR DEVELOPMENT AS IT
COMES AND I KNOW THAT I HAVE
ALSO HEARD THAT THIS IS A LARGE
CONCERN IN PARTICULAR I'VE
HEARD IT AS A CONCERN FOR
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS.
AND SO AS THIS COMES BACK, I'LL
BE INTERESTED TO SEE WHAT I'M
PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN
ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENTS TO
THINK THOUGHTFULLY ABOUT THE
WATER USAGE THAT THEY ARE THAT
YOU'RE UTILIZING AND AND WE MAY
BE ABLE TO INCENTIVIZE THAT.
SO THIS IS ONE ONE I'LL BE
PAYING PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO
BUT ANOTHER ONE IS AROUND
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT.
ONE OF THE COMMENTS THAT WE
HEARD WAS AROUND YOU KNOW WHAT
THE CHANGES WHAT THE REMOVAL
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS MIGHT LOOK
LIKE IN TERMS OF NOTICING AND
HOW DEVELOPMENT WHEN THAT GOES
TO PLANNING COMMISSION THERE
MIGHT ONLY BE EIGHT HOURS
OF NOTICE.
COULD YOU SPEAK A LITTLE BIT TO
HOW YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT
BRINGING SOME OF THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS BACK TO US IN
TERMS OF OPTIONS?
SURE.
SO THE INTENT OF THE CHANGES
THAT WE TALK ABOUT IN THE
REPORT IS TO CHANGE THE TIMING
AND THE QUALITY OF OUR
ENGAGEMENT.
IT IS NOT TO QUANTITATIVELY
LOWER THE AMOUNT OF ENGAGEMENT.
YOU KNOW WHAT WE WHAT IS
EMBODIED IN THESE RESOLUTIONS
ARE A COUPLE OF REALLY
IMPORTANT IDEAS THAT I'M GLAD
YOU ASKED ABOUT BECAUSE I THINK
THEY'RE WORTH HIGHLIGHTING OUR
SITE PLANS ARE SUBJECT TO OUR
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION ORDINANCE
AND THAT ORDINANCE REQUIRES
NOTIFICATION BY MAIL FOR
PROPERTY OWNERS WHO LIVE WITHIN
A CERTAIN RADIUS AROUND WHERE
THAT SITE PLAN IS PROPOSED AND
DEVELOPERS HOLD THESE MEETINGS.
YOU KNOW, USUALLY JUST A COUPLE
OF WEEKS BEFORE THEY SUBMIT
THEIR SITE PLAN TO THE CITY.
IT'S THEIR DEVELOPER LED
MEETINGS.
THEY TAKE THEIR OWN NOTES.
THEY INCORPORATE THEIR OWN
COMMENTS AND THEN THE SITE PLAN
IS SUBMITTED TO THE CITY.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO CHANGE THAT
NOTIFICATION SO THAT THERE IS A
DIGITAL NOTIFICATION OPTION AS
WELL ON ALL OF OUR CITY
PLATFORMS EFFECTIVELY MAKING IT
CITYWIDE NOTIFICATION NOT JUST
A POSTCARD TO SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND TO MOVE THOSE
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS SO THAT
THEY ARE CONCURRENT WITH THE
SUBMITTAL OF THE PRELIMINARY
SITE PLAN TO CITY THIS IS
BEFORE STILL BEFORE STAFF
REVIEW HAS STARTED IN EARNEST
ON A SITE PLAN.
IT IS NOT WHEN THE SITE PLAN IS
FINISHED.
IT IS NOT WHEN IT IS FINALIZED.
IT IS STILL BEFORE SUBSTANTIAL
STAFF WORK HAPPENS RIGHT IN
THROUGH THE STAFF ENGAGEMENT
PROCESS.
THOSE NOTES FROM THAT CITIZEN
ENGAGEMENT MEETING WHICH AGAIN
NOW WOULD BE A CITYWIDE DIGITAL
NOTIFICATION WOULD HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO BE INCORPORATED
INTO SITE PLAN REVISIONS.
SO THAT'S ONE IMPORTANT CHANGE.
THE TIMING IS IMPORTANT TO US.
BROADENING THE NOTIFICATION I
THINK IS IMPORTANT TO US.
I THINK YOU COULD CONSIDER THAT
AN INSTANCE WHERE WE'RE
INCREASING ENGAGEMENT.
RIGHT.
ANOTHER IMPORTANT CHANGE IS HOW
SITE PLANS ARE TREATED AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS
SITE PLANS RIGHT NOW THEY'RE
ACTUALLY ON THE AGENDA TWICE.
THEY APPEAR AS AN AGENDA ITEM
BUT THEY ALSO APPEAR AS A
PUBLIC HEARING.
SO YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU HEAR OH
MAN, THEY'RE PROPOSING TAKING
THE PUBLIC HEARING AWAY FROM
THE PLANNING COMMISSION, YOU
MIGHT BE TEMPTED TO THINK UP
FRONT.
OH NO PLANNING COMMISSIONS
BEING REMOVED FROM THIS PROCESS
ENTIRELY BUT THAT'S NOT
ACTUALLY THE CASE AND IT'S A
LITTLE MISLEADING I THINK THE
WAY THAT THAT IS DESCRIBED IN
SOME INSTANCES.
BUT WHAT WE ARE PROPOSING IS
THAT THE SITE PLANS THAT ARE
STILL
SUBJECT TO A PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL NOT ALL
OF THEM ARE BUT SITE PLANS THAT
ARE SUBJECT TO PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL WOULD BE ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA
AS A REGULAR WORK ITEM.
BUT BY CHANGING HOW THE HEARING
OR HOW THE MEETING IS DEFINED
UNDER DOMA, IT WOULD SHORTEN
THE AMOUNT OF TIME THAT WE
WOULD NEED AS STAFF TO PUBLICLY
NOTICE A MEETING.
SO OFTENTIMES WHAT HAPPENS NOW
IS BECAUSE THE NOTIFICATION
PERIOD PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
PERIOD FOR A PUBLIC HEARING IS
SO LONG WE ARE ADDING SEVERAL
WEEKS SOMETIMES MORE THAN A
MONTH TO THE APPROVAL TIMELINE
FOR A SITE PLAN IF YOU
RECONFIGURE THAT HEARING.
SO IT'S NOT DEFINED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING UNDER O'MAY BUT AS
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH I THINK IS
SUGGESTED AND AS SOME OF US
HAVE DISCUSSED, YOU STILL ALLOW
PEOPLE TO GIVE COMMENT ON THOSE
INDIVIDUAL ITEMS WHEN THEY COME
UP ON THE AGENDA.
RIGHT.
SO YOU'RE NOT LOSING THAT
ENGAGEMENT AT THE COUNCIL
MEETING WE CAN HAVE A SHORTER
NOTICE PERIOD.
SO OUR PLANNING COMMISSION
AGENDAS ARE OFTENTIMES
PUBLISHED WITH ABOUT TWO WEEKS
TO A WEEK AND A HALF OF NOTICE
AND YOU WOULD HAVE THAT PERIOD
OF NOTICE RATHER THAN SAY, YOU
KNOW, A FIVE WEEK NOTICE PERIOD
FOR A PUBLIC HEARING.
SO THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE THERE
.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON I HOPE WE
CAN ALSO SPEAK TO HOW IN HOW IN
HOUSING POLICY CONVERSATION AND
AFFORDABILITY IS A REALLY
TECHNICAL TERM AND WHAT THAT
MEANS WHEN WE TALK ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO TALK ABOUT IS
THE NEED FOR PLENTIFUL OR
ABUNDANT HOUSING.
SO COULD YOU SPEAK TO HOW I
THINK THERE'S GENERAL CONFUSION
WHEN YOU HEAR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND NOT NOT
UNDERSTANDING THAT IT'S A
REGULAR REGULATORY CATEGORY.
RIGHT.
SO WHEN HOUSING IS DESIGNATED
AFFORDABLE AT 60, 80, 36
PERCENT AM I IT DOES MEAN IT'S
ACTUALLY AFFORDABLE IN ORDINARY
LANGUAGE.
CAN YOU SPEAK TO HOW WHAT WE'RE
REALLY LOOKING FOR IS ABUNDANCE
AND DIVERSITY OF HOUSING?
YES, SURE.
AND THAT'S YOU KNOW, A THEME
THAT YOU HEARD FROM THE
GOVERNOR, A THEME THAT YOU'VE
HEARD FROM PRESIDENT BIDEN AS
YOU POINTED OUT, A THEME YOU
HEARD FROM YOU AND FROM THE
REPORT AS WELL IS THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO STIMULATE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AT ALL INCOME
LEVELS IN ANN ARBOR THERE IS A
HOUSING SHORTAGE AT VIRTUALLY
ALL INCOME LEVELS THAT'S BEEN
CONFIRMED BY STUDY MULTIPLE
TIMES AND IT'S SOMETHING WE
CERTAINLY DEAL WITH DAY TO DAY
BASIS HERE WE ALL SEE IT AND WE
ALL FEEL IT SO SUPPORTING
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AT ALL
INCOME LEVELS MEANS MAINTAINING
YOUR COMMITMENT TO THAT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THE 60 PERCENT AM I OR 80
PERCENT AM I THAT IS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THAT IS SUBSIDIZED AND
IT IS EITHER SUBSIDIZED BY THE
CITY OR THE HOUSING COMMISSION
OR ITS SUBSIDIZED THROUGH
FINANCING TOOLS SPECIFIC GRANTS
THAT ARE MADE AVAILABLE BY THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, SOMETIMES
BY THE STATE GOVERNMENT OR IT'S
JUST AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT
PRIVATE DEVELOPER COMMITS TO
PUT IN THEIR BUILDING ON THEIR
OWN BUT IT'S SUBSIDIZED BY THE
OTHER PAYERS OTHER RENTERS OR
LEASERS OR WHOEVER WITHIN THE
BUILDING RIGHT.
SO THAT'S IMPORTANT SUPPORTING
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AT ALL
INCOME LEVELS MEANS CONTINUING
YOUR COMMITMENT TO THAT
SUBSIDIZATION BUT MAKING
HOUSING MORE AFFORDABLE OVERALL
I MEANS MEETING HOUSING DEMAND
AT ALL INCOME LEVELS AND WHAT
THAT WILL DO IS OVER TIME THAT
WILL MOVE THAT CURVE, THAT
INCREASE IN HOUSING COST,
MARKET RATE, HOUSING COST IT'LL
HELP US LOWER OVER TIME.
RIGHT SO THAT THAT MARKET RATE
HOUSING BECOMES MORE
AFFORDABLE, NOT TECHNICALLY
SUBSIDIZED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BUT IT IS A MEASURE FOR HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY THAT'S VERY
IMPORTANT
.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
HIGHLIGHT THAT WE REALLY ARE
TALKING ABOUT TWO THINGS HERE.
THERE'S THE HOUSING SUPPLY THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ADDRESS THROUGH
THE PROCESS CHANGES AND THE
PROCESS CHANGES HAVE COME ABOUT
BECAUSE UH, MR. FOURNIER AND
MR. HONY AND THE REST OF STAFF
DID THIS WORK TO TALK TO PEOPLE
THROUGHOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY AND BENCHMARK AND
BEST PRACTICES IN OTHER
COMMUNITIES AND REALLY LEARN
WHAT IT IS THAT'S DRIVING UP
THE COST AND YOU'VE TALKED
ABOUT A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT
YOU KNOW, IF WE ARE REQUIRING
INFRASTRUCTURE BEYOND WHAT IS
NECESSARY FOR THE BUILDING
THAT'S ADDED COST THAT GETS
PASSED DOWN TO THE RENTERS OR
BUYERS.
THE LENGTH OF THE PROCESS THAT
DEVELOPERS NEED TO GO THROUGH
IF IT'S IF IT'S EXTENDED
UNNECESSARILY THAT'S MORE COST
MORE MEETINGS, MORE COST FOR
THE ARCHITECTS AND THE
ATTORNEYS AND EVERYBODY ELSE
WHO HAS TO BE IN ON THAT.
AND SO THROUGH THIS PROCESS
OF STREAMLINING AND AND
REDUCING THOSE HICCUPS IN THE
SYSTEM, WE CAN BOTH REDUCE THE
COST OF WHAT'S BEING BUILT AND
ALLOW MORE HOUSING TO BE BUILT
MORE QUICKLY TO ATTACK THE
SUPPLY ISSUE AS WELL
.
SO THIS RESOLUTION CONTINUES
THE THEME IT'S FOCUSED ON
SUSTAINABILITY AND ONE OF THE
ONE OF THE CHALLENGES THAT WE
FACE AS WE PUSH FORWARD TO
BUILD MORE HOUSING IS HOW DO WE
MAKE SURE THAT THAT HOUSING IS
ALIGNED OR THAT NEW DEVELOPMENT
IS ALIGNED WITH OUR ALSO OUR
CONCURRENT VALUE OF HAVING
SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS.
AND THAT'S THAT'S PARTICULARLY
CHALLENGING BECAUSE IN OUR
STATE WE CANNOT REQUIRE
BUILDINGS TO BE GREEN BUILDINGS
.
AND SO WE WE WE WE HAVE THIS
CONUNDRUM AND VERY LIMITED
TOOLS TO BE ABLE TO ADDRESS
THAT WITH AND SO I AM
APPRECIATIVE OF THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS CAME OUT OF THE
REPORT THAT TALK ABOUT HOW WE
CAN START MOVING FORWARD ON
BOTH INCENTIVIZING AND WE'VE
ALSO RECEIVED ANOTHER MEMO
AROUND BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION AS WELL OR
INCENTIVIZING THINGS.
SO WE'VE DRAWN FROM A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT SOURCES IN THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THIS RESOLUTION
FOR THOSE WHO HAVE NOT READ IT
,A FEW OF THE KEY PIECES AGAIN
THIS IS EVERYTHING WILL BE
BROUGHT BACK TO COUNCIL AND I'M
SURE THERE WILL BE CONTINUED
CONVERSATIONS BUT WE DON'T HAVE
DEFINITIONS FOR WHAT A FULLY
ELECTRIC ELECTRIFY DEVELOPMENT
LOOKS LIKE.
WE NEED THAT FOR OUR UDC.
WE DON'T HAVE WHAT AN ENERGY
EFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT IS THAT
SHOULD BE IN OUR UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AS WELL.
WE WE WANT TO YOU KNOW, THERE'S
THERE'S A WHOLE NUMBER OF OF
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE NEED TO
EVALUATE AND BE ABLE TO
HOPEFULLY MOVE FORWARD THAT
WILL APPROPRIATELY INCENTIVIZE
NEW DEVELOPMENTS TO BE THE TYPE
OF DEVELOPMENTS THAT THAT WE
WANT TO SEE.
I I RECOGNIZE THAT THE
CRITIQUES THAT WE THAT THAT
WE'VE HEARD IN THE ROOM ALREADY
ABOUT THIS THIS IS SOMETHING
WE'RE REWARDING DEVELOPERS FOR
DOING WHAT THEY SHOULD ALREADY
BE DOING.
WE SHOULDN'T BE SUBSIDIZING
THIS WITH OUR DOLLARS WITH OUR
TAX DOLLARS.
YOU KNOW, I PERSONALLY IN THE
PERFECT WORLD WE WOULD NOT HAVE
TO REQUIRE THIS OF ANY
DEVELOPMENT OR WE WOULD NOT
HAVE TO INCENTIVIZE IT.
FOLKS WOULD JUST DO IT.
BUT WE'VE HEARD ABOUT HOW HOW
EXPENSIVE IT TO BUILD AND THE
REALITY IS WE NEED TO FIND WAYS
TO MAKE THIS MORE AFFORDABLE TO
DO THE RIGHT THING.
WE HAVE LIMITED TOOLS TO BE
ABLE TO DO THIS WITH AND IF WE
HAVE BUILDINGS THAT ARE BUILT
THE WRONG, WE ARE GOING TO END
UP PAYING FOR IT AT SOME POINT
WE HAVE THE CLIMATE EMERGENCY.
IT IS A LOT EASIER TO HAVE
THINGS BUILT RIGHT AND IF THAT
TAKES A LITTLE BIT
OF ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FROM OUR
COMMUNITY RIGHT NOW TO MAKE
SURE THE BUILDINGS GET BUILT
CORRECTLY THE FIRST TIME THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT I'M I'M
COMPLETELY SUPPORTIVE OF .
WE HAVE A CLIMATE ACTION
MILLAGE THAT'S GOING BACK AND
LOOKING AT BUILDINGS THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN BUILT AND TRYING
TO RETROFIT THEM AND THAT IS A
LOT A LOT MORE EXPENSIVE.
SO YOU KNOW, I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE CAN DO EVERYTHING
THAT WE CAN TO TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE ARE GETTING BUILDINGS
BUILT SUSTAINABLY.
YEAH.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
THOSE FOLLOWING ALONG AT HOME I
WAS INFORMED MY MIKE WAS NOT ON
FOR THAT INTRODUCTION SO THAT
WE ARE ON DC THREE RESOLUTION
TO DIRECT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO IMPLEMENT NEW
PROCESSES AND PROGRAMS TO
SUPPORT SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
BUILT ENVIRONMENT WAS MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
COUNCIL MEMBER.
I WANTED TO SUGGEST AN
AMENDMENT OR MOVE TO MAKE AN
AMENDMENT TO THIS AND IT'S JUST
ON THE FIRST WHEREAS CLAUSE AND
I WILL SEND THIS TO MR.
GEPHARDT NOW IT HAS BEEN SENT
SORRY I'M JUST TRYING TO HELP
WITH THAT.
YEAH.
THE FIRST RESOLVED CLAUSE RIGHT
NOW IT SAYS CITY COUNCIL
DIRECTS THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO PURSUE THE FOLLOWING CHANGES
TO CITY PROCESSES IN AN EFFORT
TO ALLEVIATE ANY UNDUE BURDEN
ON LAND DEVELOPMENTS THAT MAY
BE CAUSED BY CITY INEFFICIENCY
WHICH I THINK IT WAS PROBABLY
LIFTED FROM THE ORIGINAL
RESOLUTION AND MY
SUGGESTION IS
TO CHANGE THIS TO SAY CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTOR, CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO PURSUE THE
FOLLOWING CHANGES TO CITY
PROCESSES IN AN EFFORT TO
ENCOURAGE SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT THAT ALIGN WITH OUR
COMMUNITIES CLIMATE ACTION
GOALS.
I JUST THINK SOME MORE APT
FRAMING MOVES BY COUNCIL MEMBER
AND ECONOMIC COUNCIL MEMBER IRE
IS THAT FRIENDLY TO THE BODY?
IT IS FRIENDLY.
COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN, YOU SAW
FOR YEAH I GUESS I HAVE THE
MIKE I DID WANT TO YOU KNOW, I
APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS BUT
FULLY ELECTRIFIED DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MEAN THAT IT'S
SUSTAINABLE OR EFFICIENT AND I
THINK THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
SHOULD BE LOOKING AT AS THESE
AS THESE COME FORWARD.
I WOULD HOPE THAT WE'RE LOOKING
ALSO AT FAST TRACKING THINGS
THAT ARE DEEMED ENERGY
EFFICIENT AND ACTUALLY MAYBE
WHILE I HAVE THE MIKE I'D LIKE
TO ASK THE QUESTION ABOUT WHAT
WHY ARE THESE TWO THINGS
SEPARATED AND HOW ARE WE
THINKING ABOUT THESE BEING TWO
SEPARATE THINGS USED IN CERTAIN
PLACES?
COULD SOMEONE SPEAK TO THAT?
IS THAT A QUESTION FOR STAFF OR
FOR SURE WHOEVER STAFF MR.
FOURNIER, IN ALL FAIRNESS, THIS
WAS AN AMENDMENT THAT WAS
PRESENTED I CAN'T REMEMBER OK
AND SO THE QUESTION MIGHT BE
BEST DIRECTED.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH OK THEN I
NEED TO BETTER UNDERSTAND IT
BECAUSE YOU'RE SAYING THAT THE
TWO OF THEM APPEAR IN DIFFERENT
PLACES.
DO YOU MEAN A DIFFERENT
RESOLUTION?
NO DIFFERENCES IN THE RESULT
CLAUSES ARE NOT ENUMERATED IN
THE FIRST TWO.
IT SAYS THAT WE SHOULD CREATE
AND DEFINE A FULLY ELECTRIFIED
DEVELOPMENT AND THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE SO CLARIFYING
I THINK WHAT THAT MEANS AND THE
NUMBER TO CREATE AND DEFINE
ENERGY EFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT
AND THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE GET THAT PROVIDING
DEFINITIONS AROUND THOSE THINGS
.
THE NUMBER THREE IT SAYS CREATE
A FAST TRACK APPROVAL PROCESS
THAT PRIORITIZE DEVELOPMENTS
THAT ARE FULLY ELECTRIFIED AND
DOES NOT MENTION ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
I'M JUST KIND OF WONDERING WHY,
YOU KNOW, MR. FOURNIER WELL,
CERTAINLY THANK YOU MAYOR PRO
TEM.
I THINK THE IDEA IS THAT WE
WOULD BE CREATING FAST TRACKING
FOR ONLY THE FULLY ELECTRIFIED
DEVELOPMENTS BUT THERE WOULD BE
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE
ALSO IDENTIFIED AS BEING ENERGY
EFFICIENT WOULD HAVE I BELIEVE
IT'S A FEE WAIVER IS WHAT'S
EXPLORED IN THE RESOLUTION.
SO WE'RE WHAT FORGIVE ME FOR
NOT BEING COMPLETELY DETAILED
ON THE AMENDMENT BUT THE IDEA
IS TO SEPARATE THOSE TWO IDEAS
ESSENTIALLY RANK ORDER THEM AND
PROVIDE MORE BENEFIT TO ONE IN
LESS BENEFIT TO THE OTHER.
I GUESS I'M NOT UNDERSTANDING
WHY WE'RE PRIORITIZE THING
FULLY ELECTRIC OVER ENERGY
EFFICIENT IF YOU WOULD LIKE US
TO SIMPLY EXPLORE A
RECOMMENDATION ON THOSE TWO
DEFINITIONS THAT WOULD BE FINE
AS WELL.
WE LET'S GIVE STAFF SOME TIME
TO WORK THROUGH THESE ISSUES
AND BRING THAT IDEA BACK TO
COUNCIL.
WELL, I THINK IT ALSO BE OK
WITH JUST AMENDING NO.
THREE TO SAY CREATE A FAST
TRACK APPROVAL PROCESS THAT
PRIORITIZE THOSE DEVELOPMENTS
THAT ARE FULLY ELECTRIFIED AND
OR YOU KNOW, I WOULD LIKE TO
EXPLORE BOTH OF THESE THINGS
SHORT BASICALLY.
ABSOLUTELY.
AM I HEARING A MOTION?
YES.
OR MOTION TO IS THERE A SECOND
THAT COMES COUNCIL MEMBER IRE?
IS THAT FRIENDLY TO THE BODY?
IT SO TO ADD JUST THE CLERK'S
SAKE TO ADD TO BULLET THREE
THAT IS FULLY ELECTRIFIED AND
OR ENERGY EFFICIENT.
CORRECT.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER IA
THANK YOU.
OK, I'M GOING TO SPEAK A LITTLE
MORE BROADLY TO THIS AND AGAIN
APPRECIATE THE WORK OF STAFF AS
WE AS WE WORK TO MAKE IT EASIER
TO BUILD NEW HOUSING IN ANN
ARBOR.
THE CLIMATE CRISIS MANDATES
THAT WE ALSO ENSURE THAT
HOUSING IS BUILT SUSTAINABLY TO
THE GREATEST EXTENT POSSIBLE
SUSTAINABILITY IN THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT HELPS TO MITIGATE
THE NEGATIVE IMPACTS
OF URBANIZATION AND
CONSTRUCTION ON THE ENVIRONMENT
BY PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE
PRACTICES AND CONSTRUCTION,
ENERGY USE AND WASTE MANAGEMENT
WE CAN REDUCE OUR
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND PRESERVE
NATURAL RESOURCES FOR FUTURE
GENERATIONS.
SUSTAINABILITY ALSO OF COURSE
ENHANCES QUALITY OF LIFE FOR
RESIDENTS.
GREEN BUILDINGS AND URBAN
DESIGN PROMOTE CLEANER AIR
ACCESS TO GREEN SPACES AND
IMPROVED PUBLIC HEALTH OUTCOMES
.
ADDITIONALLY, SUSTAINABLE
BUILDINGS OFTEN HAVE LOWER
OPERATING COSTS, MAKING HOUSING
MORE AFFORDABLE AND CONTINUING
CONTRIBUTING TO OUR ECONOMIC
RESILIENCE THE CITY.
SO IN ADDITION TO CALLING FOR
CREATING AND DEFINING THE TERMS
THAT WE JUST DISCUSSED IN OUR
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE ESTABLISHING A FAST TRACK
APPROVAL APPROVAL PROCESS FOR
SUCH DEVELOPMENTS AND MODIFYING
SITE PLAN REVIEW FEES TO
INCENTIVIZE SUSTAINABILITY, WE
ALSO THROUGH THIS WILL BE
AIMING TO ALTER OUR EVALUATION
CRITERIA FOR DEVELOPMENTS,
AMEND OUR LEGISLATIVE POLICY
AGENDA TO ADVOCATE FOR CHANGES
IN STATE LAW BY SUPPORTING TAX
ABATEMENTS FOR ELECTRIFIED OR
CARBON NEUTRAL BUILDINGS AND
TRYING TO ENSURE TIMELY
IMPLEMENTATION OF THESE
CHANGES.
IT'S ESSENTIAL TO NOTE THAT
THESE EFFORTS OF COURSE ALIGN
WITH OUR BROADER EU ZERO
INITIATIVE AND OUR CITIES LONG
TIME COMMITMENT TO
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP BY
PRIORITIZING SUSTAINABILITY IN
OUR DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES WE
NOT ONLY HELP MITIGATE THE
IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE BUT
ALSO CREATE A HEALTHIER, MORE
RESILIENT, MORE RESILIENT
NEIGHBORHOODS FOR FUTURE
GENERATIONS.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS WHO'VE MENTIONED THE
CONUNDRUM THAT WE FACE BUILD
BUT WE CANNOT REQUIRE
CARBON NEUTRALITY.
INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, WE HAVE
BEEN DOING BETTER THAN YOU
MIGHT THINK ON THIS CONUNDRUM
SINCE SEPTEMBER TWENTY TWENTY
THREE NINE PROJECTS HAVE BEEN
REVIEWED OR APPROVED BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND FIVE
OF THOSE HAVE RECEIVED FINAL
APPROVAL BY COUNCIL.
SIX OF THE NINE PROJECTS HAVE
BEEN FULLY ELECTRIFIED WITH
EXCEPTIONS FOR GAS BACKUP
GENERATORS.
TOGETHER THOSE SIX PROJECTS
WILL ADD 142 UNITS OF HOUSING
IN THE CITY AND THOSE ARE IN
FULLY ELECTRIFIED DEVELOPMENTS
NOW WHY IS THIS HAPPENING?
THIS IS HAPPENING BECAUSE WE
ARE WE ARE AT A STAGE IN OUR
CITY'S DEVELOPMENT WHERE
DEVELOPERS ARE NEEDING TO
REZONE PROPERTY IN ORDER TO
BUILD ON IT EFFICIENTLY.
SO WE'RE GETTING ZONINGS COME
TO US.
WE'RE GETTING PED'S COME TO US
BECAUSE OUR ZONING HASN'T
CAUGHT UP WITH WHERE WE AND OUR
RESIDENTS ARE IN TERMS
OF WELCOMING EFFICIENT LAND
USE.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO UNDERSCORE
THIS RECORD BECAUSE I THINK IT
SHOWS THE POWER OF INCENTIVES.
SO I MEAN WE HAVE LEVERAGE OVER
THESE DEVELOPERS BECAUSE
THEY'RE ASKING US FOR ZONING
CHANGES AND AN INCENTIVE IS A
FORM OF LEVERAGE.
IT'S RATHER THAN THE YOU WANT
THIS FROM ME I WILL GIVE YOU IT
UNDER THE CONDITION OF AN
INCENTIVE IF IT'S VALUABLE
ENOUGH DRAWS IN SOMEONE WHO
DOESN'T WHO'S WHO'S GIVING YOU
A BUY RIGHT PROJECT.
AND SO IF WE COULD HAVE MORE IF
WE CAN HAVE VALUABLE INCENTIVES
WHICH THIS RESOLUTION FORECASTS
A REDUCTION OF UPSIZING
NEEDLESS UPSIZING OF UTILITIES
THAT'S THAT'S AN INCENTIVE
WON'T MAKE YOU DO THAT ANY MORE
FAST TRACKING THAT'S A SERIOUS
INCENTIVE BECAUSE TIME REALLY
IS MONEY SEPARATING SITE PLAN
REVIEW FROM CIVIL REVIEW
BECAUSE I PLAN REVIEW DOES NOT
NEED TO INCLUDE EVERY LAST
DETAIL ABOUT GARBAGE AS MUCH AS
I LOVE THOSE DETAILS THEY DO
NOT NEED TO BE IN THIS I PLAN
AND I APPRECIATE THE POINT THAT
WAS MADE EARLIER ABOUT WE
SHOULDN'T BE GIVING OUT COOKIES
TO PERSUADE PEOPLE TO DO
SOMETHING OUGHT TO BE DOING
ANYWAY.
BUT AS I THINK OTHERS HAVE
MENTIONED IN A DIFFERENT
FRAMING IT SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENTLY.
BUT DEVELOPERS IN ANN ARBOR ARE
COMPETING FOR INVESTMENT
DOLLARS AGAINST PEOPLE WHO
COULD INVEST IN OTHER CITIES
WHERE DEVELOPMENT IS NOT AS
EXPENSIVE AS WE MAKE IT AND
THEY CAN GET A HIGHER RETURN ON
THEIR DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT
DOLLAR IN THOSE CITIES A
HANDFUL OF DEVELOPERS IN THIS
AREA BRING US SUSTAINABLE
PROJECTS BECAUSE THEY SHARE OUR
PRINCIPLES.
WE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO USE
COOKIES TO BRING THE OTHERS
ALONG AND THEY NEED TO BE BIG
COOKIES.
SO THIS IS THE BIG COOKIE
RESOLUTION.
NO, I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT
LAST POINT BECAUSE WE KNOW IF
YOU LOOK AT ALL WASHTENAW
COUNTY OPPORTUNITY INDEX WHERE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING HAS BEEN
BUILT, IT FIT IN THE TOWNSHIPS.
SO YOU KNOW, IF ANYTHING AFTER
TONIGHT I'LL TAKE THIS
RESOLUTION.
I'LL SEND IT TO SUPERVISOR
PITTSVILLE TOWNSHIP SUVIR
SUPERVISOR AND DEGREE WELL AND
SAY HOPEFULLY THOSE TAX DOLLARS
CAN COME THE NRA THAT'S WHERE
HOUSING HAS BEEN BUILT IN THE
TOWNSHIPS.
THAT'S WHERE THE TAX DOLLARS
HAVE STAYED IN THE TOWNSHIPS
WHILE JOBS ARE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR WE ARE STILL THE ECONOMIC
ENGINE OF THE ENTIRE COUNTY.
I WANT TO POINT TO ALSO THE
TIMING WHICH I REALLY
APPRECIATE.
YOU KNOW ONE OF THE REPORTS
THAT I REALLY, REALLY LOVE AND
THAT I BRING COPIES AROUND TO I
MEAN EVERYWHERE HONESTLY AS THE
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY AND
ECONOMIC EQUITY ANALYSIS THAT
THE COUNTY DID BACK IN 2005
WERE IN 2024 THANK YOU, JOHN
FOURNIER FOR BRINGING US A
LITTLE BIT UP TO SPEED.
BUT I THINK THE SECOND PAGE
OF THIS REPORT IS STILL TIMELY
AND STILL RELEVANT IN THIS IN
THE STATEMENT THE IMBALANCE IN
INCOME, EDUCATION AND OPPORTUNE
CITY BETWEEN THE JURISDICTIONS
ALONG WITH THE SEGREGATION THAT
GOES
WITH IT WILL HAMPER THE
REGIONAL ECONOMIC GROWTH
POTENTIAL OF THE AREA.
REGIONS THAT EXPERIENCE STRONG
AND MORE STABLE GROWTH ARE
TYPICALLY MORE EQUITABLE, HAVE
LESS SEGREGATION AND BETTER
BALANCE WORKFORCE SKILLS WITHIN
THEM.
SO THIS IS WHAT I THINK THIS
WORK IS ABOUT.
THIS IS WHAT THE RESOLUTIONS
ARE ABOUT.
WE'RE CATCHING UP TO WHAT WE
KNEW AND 2015 WHAT WE SHOULD
HAVE WORKED ON SINCE 2015
PANDEMIC PUT US BACK
UNIVERSITIES PUTTING US ON
NOTICE AND IT'S TIME TO TO DO
THE ACTUAL WORK SO IF I CAN BE
ADDED TO THIS RESOLUTION AS A
SPONSOR AND APPRECIATE IT AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO WHAT'S NEXT
FURTHER DISCUSSION FROM
AMERICAN.
YES, THE WAY I SEE THIS
RESOLUTION IS THAT IT'S A
CONTINUATION OF WORK THAT WE
WERE ASKED TO DO AND THAT WE
SEVERAL OF US BROUGHT FORWARD
LATE LAST YEAR ABOUT
IDENTIFYING INCENTIVES FOR
ELECTRIFICATION AND WE GOT A
MEMO BACK SO WE KNOW INCENTIVES
ARE NEEDED.
WE'VE USED INCENTIVES FOR OTHER
THINGS.
I GUESS I LEARNED PRETTY
RECENTLY WHEN WE TALKED ABOUT
THE DOWNTOWN HIGH PREMIUMS THAT
WE USED TO INCENTIVIZE BUILDING
HOUSING DOWNTOWN.
THINGS CHANGE OVER TIME WHEN
CONDITIONS CHANGED SUCH THAT
SOME OF THESE THINGS THAT WE
ARE HOPING PEOPLE DO THE RIGHT
THING FOR BECOME EASIER AND
CHEAPER AND AND THERE'S A BASE
OF KNOWLEDGE ABOUT HOW TO DO
THIS AND EXPERTIZE LET'S BUILD
UP WE WILL PROBABLY HAVE TO
REVISIT THESE AND WE WON'T NEED
THESE INCENTIVES.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE DO AND I JUST
APPRECIATE THAT WERE, YOU KNOW,
LOOKING FOR WAYS TO ENTICE
PEOPLE TO DO WHAT WE WANT TO DO
ONCE AGAIN WE DON'T HAVE YOU
FORCING LEVERS AT OUR DISPOSAL
FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF IT IS APPROVED DC FOR
A RESOLUTION TO DIRECT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO IMPLEMENT NEW
PROCESSES AND PROGRAMS TO
SUPPORT PLACEMAKING AND TAX
BASE IMPROVEMENTS MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA IS A
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER.
CORNELL, THANK YOU.
BRINGING UP THE ON ALL THE
EXCITEMENT HERE THIS RESOLUTION
DIRECTS THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO PURSUE A STRATEGY
OF PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND
DISPOSITION FOR STRATEGIC
IMPORTANT PARCELS TO ENSURE
THAT THEY'RE DEVELOPED
ACCORDING TO OUR PUBLIC
POLICIES OBJECTIVES AND THEN
THEREFORE ADDED TO THE TAX
ROLLS.
WE HAD A LOT OF CONVERSATION
AROUND THIS TONIGHT WHERE WE
HEARD I THINK FOR EVERYTHING
THAT THE UNIVERSITY DOES TO
BENEFIT OUR ECONOMY THERE ARE
REAL THERE ARE REAL ACTIVITIES
BY THE UNIVERSITY ESPECIALLY
AROUND LAND ACQUISITION THAT
ARE VERY FRUSTRATING TO BE ABLE
TO COMPETE WITH THE UNIVERSITY
WITHOUT HAVING A DIRECTIVE AND
A PLAN TO DO SO IS JUST NEVER
GOING TO WORK.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, FOR ME
BEING ABLE TO LOOK AT WHAT IS
ACTUALLY REQUIRED FINANCIALLY
FROM AN ADMINISTRATIVE
PERSPECTIVE AND CERTAINLY FROM
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
PERSPECTIVE IN ORDER TO BE MORE
EFFICIENT WITH ACQUIRING
PROPERTY THAT THE CITY CAN THEN
DEVELOP FOR ITS OWN PURPOSES TO
MEET OUR GOALS IS JUST REALLY
IMPORTANT.
WE TALKED A LITTLE BIT EARLIER
ABOUT PLACEMAKING INITIATIVES
PLACEMAKING IS FOCUSED THIS BY
DEFINITION TO IMPROVE THE
QUALITY OF LIFE OF OUR CITIZENS
AND SO IT'S HOW WE MAKE OUR
COMMUNITY MORE HABITABLE.
IT'S HOW WE MAKE WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS A VIBRANT
DOWNTOWN PUBLIC ART AND
BASICALLY DIRECTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO THINK ABOUT
HOW DO WE CREATE DESTINATIONS
FOR VISITORS, CITIZENS AND
OPPORTUNITIES WHO WANT TO LIVE
AND WORK AND BE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
WE SEE THIS WORK ALREADY
STARTED AND INITIATED BY THIS
BODY AS ONE.
SO THAT IS A STEP FORWARD.
THAT IS THAT IS WHAT WE ARE
TRYING TO ENDEAVOR WITH DC ONE
AND BASICALLY WHAT THIS DOES IS
JUST ASK THAT CITY STAFF COME
UP WITH RECOMMENDATIONS ON HOW
WE CAN ACCELERATE THESE SAME
EFFORTS THAT WE WANT TO PUT
INTO DC.
WE WANT TO MAKE THEM LIVABLE,
WALKABLE, BOOKABLE INTO OUR
EXISTING COMMUNITIES.
SO PLACES LIKE LOWERTOWN,
PLACES LIKE THE OLD WEST SIDE.
AND SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, JUST
REALLY QUICKLY GOING BACK TO U
OF M AND I DO TRULY APPRECIATE
THE BENEFITS OF THEM HAS ON OUR
ECONOMY BUT WE LOSE TWO POINT
FOUR MILLION DOLLARS ANNUALLY
AND THAT MONEY CAN BE USED TO
SUPPORT SCHOOLS AND PARKS AND
THINGS THAT WE HAVE IDENTIFIED
AS A COMMUNITY VALUE.
IT IS IN MY OPINION AND I THINK
SHARED BY THE FEEDBACK THAT
WE'VE HEARD AND RECEIVED ON
THIS THAT ARBOR ABSOLUTELY HAS
TO BE MORE PROACTIVE AND LESS
REACTIVE TO THE UNIVERSITY AS
OUR NEIGHBOR SPECIFICALLY
AROUND THAT LAND ACQUISITION.
THIS RESOLUTION ASKS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ESTABLISH A
FUND AND TO DEVELOP A STRATEGY
TO FINANCE THIS ACTIVITY SO
THAT PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS DO
NOT NECESSARILY NEED TO BE
FUNDED OUT OF THE GENERAL FUND.
SO THAT'S A REALLY IMPORTANT
DISTINCTION IS THAT WE AREN'T
TRYING TO TAKE FROM THE GENERAL
FUND TO PURCHASE PROPERTY THAT
WE KNOW COULD BENEFIT US FROM A
TAX PERSPECTIVE.
WE'RE ACTUALLY FINDING A WAY TO
DO THAT.
AND FINALLY IT ALSO ASKS FOR A
WORKING GROUP TO BE ESTABLISHED
TO CONSIDER THE POSITIVE
POTENTIAL BENEFITS OF REQUIRING
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS TO
FOLLOW THE SAME APPROVAL PATH.
IS THERE A CORRESPONDING SITE
PLANS WHICH MR. FOURNIER
ALREADY TALKED ABOUT EARLIER?
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THIS.
THIS WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
THINGS I ASKED ABOUT AFTER I
GOT ELECTED AND SORT OF FELT
CONFIDENT THAT I KNEW WHO TO
ASK QUESTIONS OF WAS YOU KNOW,
AROUND THIS PROPERTY
ACQUISITIONS STRATEGY AND I'M
REALLY ENTHUSIASTIC TO SEE IT
COME FORWARD TONIGHT.
THANK THERE FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON I'M EAGER TO
SEE WHO OUR PARTNERS WILL BE ON
THIS SO WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO
SEE THE DDA WE SHOULD BE ABLE
TO SEE ATAY WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
REGIONAL TRANSIT, WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT POTENTIAL DEGENERATIVE
CORRIDORS IF WE CAN REIMAGINE
WASHTENAW IN THIS LIFETIME I
MEAN I FEEL LIKE THIS IS WHERE
THIS CONVERSATION CAN LIVE
RIGHT.
AND WE KNOW HOW DIFFICULT IT IS
TO LIVE WITHIN POLITICAL
REALITIES.
WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT WHAT'S
GOING ON AT THE STATE AND
FEDERALLY BUT HERE IN OUR OWN
HOME, IN OUR OWN COMMUNITY AS
AS HOST TO EMPLOYERS AND OUR
SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS, I FEEL
LIKE THIS IS WHERE WE CAN
REALLY LEVERAGE WHAT WE KNOW
AND WHAT WE DO BEST, WHICH IS
BE WELCOMING TO ANN ARBOR AND
UNDERSTAND THAT PEOPLE ARE HERE
FOR THE SAME REASONS THAT WE
OURSELVES ARE HERE AND WHY WE
CARE FOR THIS COMMUNITY TAX
BASE IMPROVEMENTS AND NEW
PROCESSES AND PROGRAMS.
THIS IS THE STRENGTH OF BANABA
.
THIS IS WHY PEOPLE STAY HERE.
I ALWAYS THINK FOLKS FOR FOR
PAYING THEIR HIGH TAXES BUT I
KNOW FROM WHEN WE'VE DONE
SURVEYS FOR THE MOST PART
MAJORITY OF RESIDENTS
UNDERSTAND WHERE OUR TAXES ARE
GOING TOWARDS AND APPRECIATE
THE INVESTMENTS THAT WE'VE MADE
SO THAT TRUST IN US I HOPE WILL
CONTINUE.
I'M REALLY EXCITED AGAIN TO SEE
THE PARTNERS.
THEY'LL COME FORWARD BECAUSE
THIS IS A GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO
STRENGTHEN OUR ROLE AS A AS A
AS A REGIONAL PLACE, A REGIONAL
FORCE, FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF AMERICA.
THANK YOU.
WHEN I READ ABOUT PLACEMAKING
IN THIS, THE FIRST THING THAT I
THINK OF IS THE FACT THAT WE
HAVE THIS BEAUTIFUL RIVER IN
THE MIDDLE OF OUR CITY THAT
PERHAPS HASN'T BEEN, YOU KNOW,
THOUGHT THROUGH COMPLETELY WHAT
SHOULD GO ON OR HOW WE SHOULD
BEST I DON'T KNOW, MAKE USE
OF THIS BEAUTIFUL RESOURCE IN
TERMS OF PLACEMAKING.
AND I ALSO THINK ABOUT THE
AAGOT CASCADE'S WHICH I THINK
IS LIKE A WONDERFUL SUCCESS
STORY ABOUT, YOU KNOW, MAKING
THAT SECTION OF THE RIVER A
DESTINATION AS THERE'S AN ITEM
ON HERE THE ITEM ABOUT CREATING
THE SUB KHORRAM WORKING GROUP
OF CITY COUNCIL TO LOOK THIS
CHARTER AMENDMENT AND YOU KNOW,
I DON'T THINK THAT I DON'T TAKE
IT LIGHTLY, YOU KNOW, GIVING UP
THE VOTE MAJORITY.
SO I'M GLAD THAT A GROUP IS
BEING FORMED TO KIND OF THINK
THROUGH THIS.
IT'S CERTAINLY SOMETHING THAT I
WANT TO THINK THROUGH AND ALSO
WANT TO HIGHLIGHT FOR RESIDENTS
THAT REGARDLESS OF WHAT THE
WORKING GROUP COMES UP WITH IN
TERMS OF RECOMMENDATIONS OR
WHAT THIS BODY I THINK THE
DECISION OF THIS BODY WOULD BE
TO PUT IT ON A BALLOT FOR A
CHARTER AMENDMENT AND THEN
PEOPLE WOULD HAVE TO VOTE FOR
SO IT HAS TO BE A VOTE OF THE
PEOPLE AND I WANTED TO MAKE
THAT CLEAR THAT WE'RE NOT
MAKING THIS DECISION TONIGHT
AND IT WILL INVOLVE MANY
DECISION POINTS INCLUDING THE
WILL OF THE VOTERS FURTHER
DISCUSSION THOSE IN FAVOR POSTS
IT IS APPROVED.
CITY ATTORNEY KOWA, DO WE HAVE
THE PLEASURE OF A CLOSED
SESSION THIS EVENING?
NO, THANK YOU, MAYOR FORD.
THANK.
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE
CLERKS REPORT OF COMMUNICATION
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS MOVED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED
BY A COUNCIL MEMBER EITHER ALL
THOSE ARE DISCUSSION ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSE IT IS
APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE FURTHER
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY THIS EVENING?
NO, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE NOW ARRIVED AT OUR
SECOND PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
WHICH PROVIDES AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR THE REMAINING SPEAKERS ON
OUR PUBLIC COMMENTARY LIST TO
ADDRESS COUNCIL.
THE NEXT SPEAKER ON OUR LIST IS
KEVIN KARPIAK
.
HELLO.
THANK YOU FOR ALL THE WORK
YOU'VE DONE TODAY FOR THE TIME.
SO MY NAME IS DR. AARON KARPIAK
AND I AM A MEMBER OF KREWE'S
THE COALITION FOR
REINVIGORATING OUR SAFETY AND I
SPEAK BOTH
AS A MEMBER OF CROZ
AND AS A PROFESSOR
OF CRIMINOLOGY WHO SPENT THE
LAST QUARTER CENTURY STUDYING
THE CHALLENGES TO COMMUNITY
BASED REFORMS ATTACHED TO
CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEMS.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
CITY DEVELOPMENT OF ARMED
RESPONSE PROGRAM AND IN
PARTICULAR ADDENDUM NUMBER ONE
RFP NUMBER TWENTY 16 UNARMED
CRISIS RESPONSE IMPLEMENTATION
CREWES REVIEW REVIEWED THE
REVISED DRAFT CONFERRING
DIRECTLY WITH OVER A HALF DOZEN
EXPERTS AND PRACTITIONERS FROM
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THIS REVIEW RAISED SERIOUS
CONCERNS ABOUT THE REVISED
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROGRAM.
FOR EXAMPLE WE WERE TROUBLED BY
REQUIREMENT ARE WHICH REQUIRED
ANY POTENTIAL VENDOR TO CALL
911 ONE IN ANY SITUATION IN
WHICH THERE WAS THIS QUOTE
REASONABLE SUSPICION QUOTE THAT
A CRIME MAY OCCUR.
THIS FRAMING RAISED SEVERAL RED
FLAGS FOR US LARGELY BECAUSE IT
IS BOTH A VERY BROAD CHARGE AND
THE INVERSE OF HOW THE TERM
REASONABLE SUSPICION IS USUALLY
USED IN MATTERS PERTAINING TO
POLICE.
IN MOST CIRCUMSTANCES
REASONABLE IS A LEGAL FRAMING
USED TO GIVE OFFICERS COVER FOR
DISCRETIONARY CHOICES IN REAL
WORLD SITUATIONS.
THE PRE AMENDED DRAFT TOOK AWAY
THAT DISCRETION FOR
NONPOLLUTING OR NON POLICE
RESPONDERS AND COULD FORCE ANY
NEW PROGRAM TO BECOME A POLICE
RESPONSE PROGRAM WITH AN EVEN
MORE STRINGENT REPORTING
REQUIREMENT.
IT ALREADY EXISTS.
WE HAVE DONE OUR BEST TO
COMMUNICATE THESE CONCERNS TO
CITY STAFF COUNCIL AND THE
PUBLIC AND WOULD LIKE TO THANK
ALL THOSE MEMBERS OF OUR
COALITION WHO HAVE REACHED OUT
TO THEIR CITY GOVERNMENT IN THE
LAST SEVERAL DAYS TO OFFER
FEEDBACK ON THE RFP FOR UNARM
RESPONSE.
THEREFORE WE WERE HAPPY TO SEE
THAT SOME OF THESE ISSUES HAVE
BEEN ADDRESSED IN THE ADDENDUM
THAT WAS ISSUED TODAY, FOR
EXAMPLE IN THE REMOVAL
OF REQUIREMENT.
HOWEVER, WE REMAIN CONCERNED
THAT THE DISCRETION
OF RESPONDERS IS BEING LIMITED
IN A WAY THAT CAN UNDERMINE THE
PROGRAM.
THE GOAL OF THE COMMUNITY IS TO
CREATE A PROGRAM THAT USES THE
DISCRETIONARY POWERS OF AN
UNARMED RESPONSE ALTERNATIVE TO
POLICE ONE THAT WILL FUNNEL
SITUATIONS THAT MAY BE FRAMED
AS CRIMINAL INSTANCES TOWARDS
CARE BASED SOLUTIONS.
UNFORTUNATELY, MANY ELEMENTS
OF THE RFP AS IT CURRENTLY IS
AMENDED CONTINUE TO UNDULY
LIMIT THE DISCRETION OF ANY
POTENTIAL RESPONSE PROGRAM AS
ANY FIRST RESPONDER INCLUDING
POLICE WILL TELL YOU, REAL LIFE
SITUATIONS ARE NOT AS CLEARLY
DEFINED AS THEY MAY APPEAL IN
LEGAL GUIDELINES SITUATIONAL
DISCRETION RELYING ON
PROFESSIONAL EXPERTIZE IS
NECESSARY FOR SUCCESSFUL
RESPONSE.
WE URGE CITY COUNCIL AND
ADMINISTRATION TO CONSIDER
FURTHER MEASURES TO ASSURE THAT
THIS DESCRIPTION
INSTITUTIONALLY AND LEGALLY
PROTECTED FOR ANY NEW PROGRAM
WHETHER IT BE THROUGH FURTHER
AMENDMENT TO THE CURRENT RFP OR
BROADER CHANGES TO THE CITY'S
LEGAL CODE AND CLASSIFICATIONS
.
OTHERWISE MANY OF THE
SITUATIONS THAT OUR COMMUNITY
HAS VOICED A DESIRE FOR IN THIS
PROGRAM TO RESPOND MAY BE RULED
OUT AS OPPORTUNITIES FOR CARE
RESPONSE.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE CHRISTINE
CROCKET IF MISS CROCKET IS ON
THE PHONE AS I KNOW SHE LEFT
THE MEETING PLEASE RAISE YOUR
HANDS
THEN WE WILL MOVE ON TO
MUSKAAN.
THAT WOULD BE ASWANI
.
HELLO, NARBONNE.
LET ME RECAP AS TO WHAT JUST
HAPPENED HERE TONIGHT.
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL OPENED
THE DOORS OF THIS CITY TO BLACK
ST. FOR DEVELOPING CHURCH
STREET THAT WAS DONE IN
DEFIANCE OF THEIR OWN CITY
OFFICE'S ANALYSIS.
CITY PLANNERS ANALYSIS TOLD
THEM THIS IS NOT GOING TO HELP
OUR PROBLEM WITH PUBLIC HOUSING
,WITH AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THEY WERE TOLD THIS IS NOT THE
REMEDY YET THEY WENT AHEAD AND
UNAN MOSTLY AGREED THAT THEY
WILL ALLOW THIS DEVELOPMENT IF
YOU ARE SICK AND TIRED OF IT
JUST LIKE I AM VOTE FOR ME AND
KICK OUT THIS IDEA OF EITHER
THE CITY COUNCIL DOES NOT
REPRESENT PEOPLE ABOUT OVER
THEY SIT AND LAUGH AT US.
THEY PRETEND WE ARE IDIOTS AND
WE'RE NOT.
WE WILL COME OUT.
I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT THIS
COMPANY WHICH IS CALLED BLACK
STONE IS A MULTI BILLION DOLLAR
DEVELOPMENT ASSET MANAGEMENT
COMPANY WITH STRONG TIES TO THE
APARTHEID STATE OF ISRAEL.
THEY HAVE STRONG INVESTMENTS IN
THE APARTHEID STATE OF ISRAEL.
ISRAEL IS A GENOCIDAL STATE
THAT FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
EIGHT DAYS HAS BEEN SWELTERING.
PALESTINA AND PEOPLE HAS BEEN
STARVING PALESTINA AND PEOPLE
ISRAEL HAS BROKEN EVERY IN THIS
WORLD AND THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT GENOCIDE BIDEN
GENOCIDE JOE ARE FULLY
EMPOWERING ISRAEL TO CONTINUE
THIS GENOCIDE.
THIS CITY COUNCIL HAS HAD NOT
ONE WORD TO SAY ABOUT THE
GENOCIDE OF PALESTINIANS.
THEY SIT AND WATCH AS MORE AND
MORE WOMEN ARE RAPED.
YES, I SAID RAPE ISRAELIS HAVE
BEEN PALESTINIAN WOMEN.
A WOMAN WAS RAPED IN AL SHIFA
HOSPITAL FOR TWO DAYS BEFORE
SHE WAS ASSASSINATED KILLED BY
ISRAELIS.
WOMEN WHO ARE PREGNANT ARE
KILLED FIRST RAPED AND KILLED
IN FRONT OF THEIR FAMILIES.
THESE ARE THE ATROCITIES THAT
WE WITNESS AND WE WATCH AS IT
HAPPENS EVERY DAY YET THE CITY
COUNCIL CONTINUES TO SIT
QUIETLY AND WATCH THIS
DEVASTATION VICTIM CUT OFF
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
ITS CITY COUNCIL DOES NOT
REPRESENT NABIL NEXT BLAINE
KALLMAN
LAST DECEMBER LAST
DECEMBER FORCE MAYOR
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR ANNOUNCED
THAT ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL HAS
NO INTENTION OF EVER
CONSIDERING A RESOLUTION ABOUT
GAZA.
THE WHOLE CITY COUNCIL STOOD
BEHIND HIM BUT THEN HUNDREDS
OF PEOPLE FROM THE COMMUNITY
FLOODED INTO THE CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBERS.
THE COMMUNITY SPOKE FOR
CEASEFIRE AND AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
CITY COUNCIL NEVER GAVE THE
COMMUNITY ANY RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
BUT IT FINALLY DID APPROVE A
VERY WEAK CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
THAT'S IT.
SO TONIGHT SPEAKING FOR MYSELF
ONLY, I DEMAND THAT YOU FINALLY
APPROVE
OTHER CITY COUNCILS
HAVE ALREADY DONE I HAVE
DEMANDED THAT RESOLUTION FOR 20
YEARS AND SO HAS DR. MOYSTON
ISRAEL HAS MURDERED OVER FORTY
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS IN JUST
THE LAST SIX MONTHS WITH YOUR
US TAX DOLLARS.
THIS CITY COUNCIL APPROVES
RESOLUTIONS FOR UKRAINE, BURMA,
SOUTH AFRICA, GAY RIGHTS FOR
BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA,
INTERNATIONAL LABOR RIGHTS FOR
WENDY'S FARM WORKERS AND FOR
FEDERALLY MANDATED LABELING
OF GENETICALLY ENGINEERED FOOD.
BUT BUT THIS CITY COUNCIL
CHOOSES TO GO ON THE ATTACK
FROM THE INSIDE OF ITS SOUL
AGAINST ANYONE DEMANDING A
RESOLUTION, ANYONE DEMANDING A
RESOLUTION THAT OPPOSES
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL LOOK WHO
FEROCIOUSLY TACKS WHEN WE JUST
ASK FOR A RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
X COUNCIL MEMBER JOAN
LOWENSTEIN, CURRENT COUNCIL
MEMBER DARMA HOCKMAN WHOSE
CAMPAIGN TREASURER IS JOAN
LOWENSTEIN COUNCIL MEMBER
BACHMANN'S HUSBAND WHO ON MARCH
30 FIRST SHOUTED SHAMOO TO OUR
DR. MOJGAN ON THESE ANN ARBOR
STREETS THE WORD ZAMMUTO MEANS
HER IN ARABIC AND ANY MAN WHO
YELLS THAT OUT A WOMAN IS
LIABLE TO PHYSICALLY ASSAULT OR
KILL HER COUNCIL MEMBER JANAYA
WHO TOOK CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM
OLD FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL
DEFENSE FORCES AND YES I
CAMPAIGN TREASURER IS ALSO JOAN
LOWENSTEIN'S COUNCIL MEMBER
LINSON WHOSE CAMPAIGN TREASURER
IS YES JOAN LOWENSTEIN.
FOR YEARS MAYOR TAYLOR HAS
WORKED TO KEEP THE MERE MENTION
OF GAZA OUT OF CITY COUNCIL
DISCOURSE EVEN AS OUR TAX
DOLLARS ARE USED TO MASSACRE
GAZA.
AND YES, MAYOR TAYLOR'S
CAMPAIGN TREASURER IS ALSO JOHN
LOWENSTEIN AND BACKED AS ISRAEL
WAS RAINING DEATH DOWN ON THE
POPULATION OF GAZA, MAYOR
TAYLOR PUBLICLY READ A PRAYER
FOR THE STATE OF ISRAEL.
THAT'S THE CITY COUNCIL WE'RE
DEALING WITH.
THANK YOU.
YOUR TIME IS AND WE WILL MAKE
SURE THEY APPROVE A RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
.
WITH THAT OUR PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD IS CONCLUDED.
DO WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
IA SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL ALL IN FAVOR OPPOSE.
WE ARE ADJOURNED